A former Kaduna State Governor, Balarabe Musa, died on Wednesday morning in Kaduna at the age of 84. One of his sons, Kallamu Balarabe-Musa, confirmed the death of the former National Chairman of the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) at his residence in Kaduna. He said that Musa will be buried by 4p.m. after funeral prayer at the Sultan Bello Mosque, Kaduna. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that Musa was born on Aug. 21, 1936 in Kaya, Kaduna State. He studied at Zaria Middle School from 1947 to 1952 and at the Institute of Administration, Zaria, 1952 to 1953. Musa, who was an accounts clerk and a school teacher, held various managerial positions related to accountancy from 1960 to 1976, while studying at different colleges in London to gain additional qualifications. He was elected governor of the old Kaduna State in 1979 on the platform of the PRP, a party founded by late Mallam Aminu Kano. As governor, he was was prevented from constituting a cabinet by the state house of assembly, dominated by the opposition National Party of Nigeria (NPN) members. Eventually the House impeached him in June 1981, making him the first Nigerian state governor ever to be impeached. He was the PRP candidate for the presidency in the 2003 elections, and later Chairman of Conference of Nigerian Political Parties (CNPP). On Aug. 31, 2010, Balarabe-Musa quit active politics due to health issues and announced his immediate resignation from chairmanship of the PRP. NAN also reports that Musa, in a last interview he granted NAN on Oct. 4, said that the aspirations of Nigeria could be achieved if both the leadership and followers resolved to play their part in earnest nation building . “Honestly, the country has not fared well at 60. It is very disappointing that this is where we are. “But things can be better; we can still achieve the dreams of the founding fathers if we all play our role in nation building,”he said. He urged leaders to always make the welfare and well-being of the people the focus of their policies and programmes. The former governor stressed that political and economic restructuring of the country was key for progress “We need to restructure the country politically and economically. We need to ensure that power actually resides with the people. “The economic and political models we are currently operating only empower a few. Governments must be structured to impact positively on the masses,”he said. The Chairman of the Senate Committee on Defence, Sen. Aliyu Wamakko, has described the Second Republic Governor of old Kaduna State, the late Alhaji Balarabe Musa, as a dogged and rare democrat. Wamakko, in a statement issued by his Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Malam Bashir Mani, said that Musa’s demise had left a wide vacuum too difficult to fill in the Nigerian political sphere. Wamakko, who also described Musa as a core patriot and nationalist, said that he recorded tremendous achievements while he was the governor of the old Kaduna State between October 1979 and June 1981. According to him, Musa’s demise is a colossal loss, not only to his immediate family and Kaduna State but also, to the country in general. The for governor of Sokoto State prayed Allah to grant the deceased aljannat firdaus and his family, people and government of Kaduna State the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss. The president, in a condolence message by his spokesman, Malam Garba Shehu, in Abuja on Wednesday said the deceased would be sorely missed by all Nigerians, who have diligently followed his antecedents as a voice for the voiceless. President Buhari believed Musa reflected the passion and vigour that heralded Nigeria’s independence, which steadily translated into activism for return to democracy at the height of military interregnum and had remained steadfast in the call for good and inclusive governance. According to him, as the former governor goes home, he left a bold footprint on Nigeria’s democracy. He added that the former governor’s role in promoting good governance and development would always be remembered and appreciated by posterity. Buhari prayed that the almighty God would grant his soul eternal rest, and comfort his family, friends and associates. ACF mourns Yusuf Ladan, Balarabe Musa The Arewa Consultative Forum(ACF) has expressed sadness over  the death of two prominent Northern elders – former governor of Kaduna State, Alhaji Balarabe Musa and Alhaji Yusuf Ladan, a prominent broadcaster. ACF National Publicity Secretary, Mr Emmanuel Yawe, said this in a statement on Wednesday in Kaduna. “Balarabe Musa was an active member of the Northern Elements Progressively Union (NEPU). “In the second republic he again teamed up with his old comrades in NEPU and their leader, Malam Aminu Kano to form the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP), on whose ticket he was elected governor of Kaduna State. “Sadly, he was impeached and removed before he could execute his programmes. “As sad as that experience was, he devoted the rest of his life for the struggle to improve the life of the ordinary Nigerian,” Yawe said. He said that Nigerians will remember Musa as the last man standing in the war against corruption, exploitation and dictatorship. “We also wish to express our condolence to the family of Alhaji Yusuf Ladan, a prominent broadcaster, Dan Iyan Zauzzau and a member Board of Trustees of ACF,” Yawe said. Dr Joe Okei-Odumakin, President, Women Arise and Centre for Change, has commiserated with the family of late former governor of Kaduna State, Balarabe Musa, describing the death as a great loss. Okei-Odumakin, in a condolence massage on Wednesday in Lagos described the deceased as a born fighter and humanist of the highest order. She said that the late Musa was a defender and friend of the ‘talakawa.’ The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the late former governor died in the early hours of Wednesday at the age of 84. The deceased was the leader of the People’s Redemption Party (PRP) in the 4th Republic. He was elected governor of Kaduna State during Nigeria’s Second Republic, holding office from October 1979 until he was impeached on June 23, 1981. “Words fail me to react to the passage of Alhaji Balarabe Musa, his voice will be sorely missed in Nigeria’s aridity of principled voices. “His dogged commitment to the cause of the downtrodden dates back to the politics of the Second Republic,” she said Okei-Odumakin said that the late Musa was an apostle of the Aminu Kano school of politics, adding that he was one of two PRP governors that toppled the applecart of the conservative North. She said that his consistent and undaunted activism on the side of the voiceless neither lost steam nor was it reduced in its vibrancy. “And that was how Balarabe lived his life until he breathed his last. “Surely, he has left indelible imprint on the sands of time. “The vacuum his exit has created will thus be difficult to fill in the ranks of progressive activism not only in the North but also throughout the whole country. Okei-Odumakin extended her condolences to the progressives family nationwide. She prayed that the good Lord to grant each and everyone the fortitude to bear this irreparable loss.