The Northern Governors’ Forum has condemned the Saturday killing of rice farmers in Jere Local Government Area of Borno by Boko Haram terrorists. The Chairman of the forum and Governor of Plateau, Simon Lalong, made the condemnation on Sunday in Jos, in a statement by his Director of Press and Public Affairs, Dr Makut Macham. Lalong described the incident as tragic and a great setback to the country’s efforts to attain domestic sufficiency in rice production as well as food security. He said the entire country was deeply saddened over the killing of the rice farmers who committed no crime, but went to their farms to earn their honest living. He said the forum had consistently worked with the Federal Government, security agencies and local support groups to ensure protection of farmers, in order to enable them to carry out their farming activities. The chairman said that in spite the condemnable act, the forum would not relent in its support to enable security agencies to deal decisively with the terrorists and other criminals. He commiserated with the families of the deceased farmers, as well as the people and government of Borno over the incident. The farmers were killed on Saturday in Koshebe village of Jere local government area of the state while working in their farms. Buhari President Muhammadu Buhari has expressed grief over the killing of farmers on rice fields at Zabarmari in Jere Local Government of Borno, describing the terrorist killings as insane. The president made the condemnation in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu, in Abuja on Sunday. President Buhari said the government had given all the needed support to the armed forces “to take all necessary steps to protect the country’s population and its territory.” Buhari said: “I condemn the killing of our hardworking farmers by terrorists in Borno State. ”The entire country is hurt by these senseless killings. My thoughts are with their families in this time of grief. ”May their souls Rest In Peace.” The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that about 43 farmers were murdered while unspecified number of others were unaccounted for when Boko Haram insurgents launched attacks on rice fields at Zabarmari. NAN gathered that nine of the victims were believed to be settlers in search of greener pasture from Zamfara, seven from Kebbi and eight from Sokoto state while the remaining were indigenes of Zabarmari town. NAN also reports that the victims would be buried today (Sunday).