There is need for governments to embrace indigenous technology for improved infrastructural and economic development, the Nigeria Academy of Engineering said on Sunday. Some of the members of the academy made the call in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos. They spoke on the sidelines of the Nigeria Academy of Engineering Investiture and 2020 Annual Lecture  with theme : “The Nigeria Infrastructure Conundrum-The Missing Link’’. Dr Edet Amana, who was the Guest Speaker at the event, told NAN that  the country must find a way to ensure that young `local’’ Nigerians got involved in infrastructural development. Amana said: “This is important because the young local people are talented and vibrant, and technology developed locally would work and improve the economy. “Instead of the local and  young people looking for how to migrate from the  country, of which is bad, these are the people we need to develop the economy and infrastructure because it requires technology. “The reason why infrastructures such as the roads and water are not working is because knowledge infrastructure, which is technology, and the missing link are not working. “We need technology acquisition and appreciation but we have not internalised ourselves to adopt, adapt and internalise technology. “Let the local people be involved in technology and  not to import everything and expect them to work in Nigeria. They won’t work optimally because we did not internalise that technology.’’ He said that knowledge infrastructure, which is technology, is the most important infrastructure. “So, I urge governments to develop own technology. The  young people here are vibrant and talented but no encouragement,’’ he said. Amana, also the Chairman of  Amana Consortium, said it is the knowledge infrastructure that controls all other infrastructures  and they include the  physical, social and organisational infrastructures. According to him, the country can acquire knowledge internally and mould it to become a National Innovative Scheme, whereby the scheme must be indigenous and not be managed by foreigners. He, however,  said there was need for coordination by the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology for the scheme to take place. He advised Nigerians to up their game and rise to the challenge because it is a great country with great people. Another Engineer, Alex Ogedegbe, who is the new  President of the academy,  said that the academy advises governments and stakeholders in Nigeria to focus more on technology within Nigeria. Ogedegbe affirmed that there are many talented fellows in the academy and outside, whose efforts are not harnessed. “There is need to encourage fellows in the activities of the academy to present papers that could be given to stakeholders. “What is happening today in China is because of technology being involved in their economy. “’The issue is to mobilise the resources we have. We need to engage people to invest their time , effort and money. “We do not want to have only finished products imported. We want to have our own factories,’’ Ogedegbe said. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that Ogedegbe was installed as the 11th president of the academy at the event. Also, 10 fellows were inducted as fellows of the Nigeria Academy of Engineering while some engineers also received the Life Achievement Awards.