Kreateng is a software and creative design company which began operation on 11th November 2019. It is situated in Lagos State, Nigeria. The company was established to assist businesses in Nigeria and other countries in achieving exponential growth and operational efficiency through enterprise software solutions, creative design and branding, digital marketing and co-working space. The company creates unique and unforgettable experiences that helps in transforming companies and businesses, and also helps in inspiring people to achieve their career and individual goals. Kreateng is professionally and successfully oversee by experts. It’s been managed and overseen by Mr Adedayo Okunfolami, a software engineer with over ten years working experience. He has worked in various sectors of the economy from banking to education, construction, media and information and technology sector. Other management team include Oladele Dada, Idunnu Eniola and Sanusi Abiodun with expertise across web, mobile applications, graphics design and general ICT support and infrastructure, respectively. Kreateng was created in a bid to breathe life into businesses and brands that needs reformation, innovation, growth and development. In achieving this, the company is positioned to deliver its services through the holistic understanding of its clients and their needs. The company is likewise in the business of delivering the best digital experience for everyone whether it is web or mobile application development, graphics design or any digital marketing solution. Kreateng has so far been able to craft and design a brand identity that will earn them a greater return on your investment.  In addition, Kreateng is a partner in building brands beginning from the development of strategies to the execution of campaigns, and all thanks to the experienced and professional team that make available the tools and skills needed to get marketing done the right way. At Kreateng, we are in the business of investing and leveraging on technology and digital solutions to help our clients develop and acquire new potentials across their respective businesses and organizations. We provide unique workstation services which include state-of-the-earth work place design, top notch internet service, and standard security. We have different membership plans which range from pay-as you- go to prepaid plans all in a bid to satisfy the different price ranges of our client. Kreateng uniqueness and dynamism is not just about the software and creative design business, but that it cared about customers and their clients, working as a family while developing and inspiring each other. Kreateng promises superb and top-notch digital experiences and this is simply based on the believe that making available every necessary digital software and technological solutions will enable our clients to do more and achieve more to a greater extent. The company recently launched a courier solutionAssistDispatch- a logistic company which offers the most reasonable inter-state and intra-state courier service to almost every location within Nigeria. The start-up is also planning to launch an agency banking and medical platform. It likewise launched Motocare – an automobile service linking app that connects vehicle owners to reliable automobile workshops and engineers. The firm has also provided process automation solutions to companies such as Berachah MFB; Biofem Pharmaceutical firm; ICOBA; ACEGID, among many others. The company also provides monthly training boot camps to young Nigerians in Lagos. There’s also the Goschooled KreatengHub which provides online blended Educational platform for students and school administrators, and blind tutors which helps with projects and assignment, respectively.  However, a very notable thing also worthy of mentioning about this unique start-up is its contribution in combating and controlling the spread of Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19). The IT firm developed a multidimensional approach in combating the spread of COVID-19 by designing an Electronic Self-Assessment toolkit (e-self assessment tool). This was done in partnership with African Centre of Excellence for Genomics of Infectious Diseases (ACEGID) located at the Redeemer’s University, Ede, Osun State. Basically, the app enables Nigerians to provide information about their health status, travel or contact histories, job records and states of residence. With the information provided, the app assesses the chances of individuals contracting coronavirus and provides a final result of ‘ low risk’, ‘ medium risk’ or ‘high risk’. All these measures were taken due to the exceptional and courageous efforts of medical practitioners all over the globe, the need to provide support service using information technology, and due to other conventional methods in early identification and tracking of both symptomatic and asymptomatic persons which remains vital in putting an end to COVID-19 spread. Needless to say, there is no business without its own challenges and we are not without challenges and setbacks. Starting the business was not such an easy thing as we were faced with lots of disappointment from prospective clients and partners who promised partnering with us and patronizing our business and services but to no avail. Towards the fourth quarter of the year, business didn’t boom as expected due to the pandemic and it took the grace of God that the business was able to survive that period. Reaching the target audience was a bit difficult as well but all glory to God Almighty as we were able to scale through all these challenges. Finally, “Kreateng team is passionate about delivering excellence to assisting clients reach new heights. We are committed to integrity and transparency. We portray a strong commitment to have a sustainable relationship with clients.”