WorldStage Newsonline– Unilever Nigeria Plc has announced the appointment of Mr Jaime Aguilera has been appointed as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 January, 2021. In a notification at the Nigerian Stock Exchange the board warmly welcomes Mr Jaime Aguilera and wishes him all the best in his new role. According to the notification, “Mr Jaime Aguilera is a well rounded business professional, with broad operational expertise while working for top FMCG companies. Jaime was appointed as Executive Vice President Unilever Eastern Europe in September 2016. Prior to joining Unilever, he has been in Coca-Cola, Nestlé and Procter & Gamble. His experience spans from Europe, Americas and Asia. He has lived and operated in countries starting from Spain, Brazil, Greece, Mexico, Switzerland, then back to Spain. His key expertise areas are in Sales & Marketing and he has lead teams in Spain, Brazil, South Eastern Europe, Middle East, Mexico and Global teams. In 2009, he joined Unilever Spain as EVP & Chairman and then moved to his current role as Unilever Executive Vice President Africa, leading the Unilever business in Africa. Jaime is of Spanish origin and is an alumnus of the Universidad Pontificia de Comillas- ICADE. Jaime majored in Economic Sciences, Management & Business Administration.” Following the above appointment, Unilever said its current board composition include: Igwe Nnaemeka A. Achebe CFR, mni – Chairman; Mr Carl Cruz (Filippino) – Managing Director; Mr Jaime Aguilera (Spanish) – Non-Executive Director Directors: His Majesty Nnaemeka A. Achebe, CFR, mni, Obi of Onitsha (Chairman), Carl Cruz (Managing Director) -Filipino, Abiola Alabi (Mrs); Ammuna Lawan Ali OON, Felix Enwemadu, Chika Nwobi, Adesola Sotande-Peters (Mrs), Mutiu Sunmonu CON; Mrs Abiola Alabi – Independent Non-Executive Director; Mrs Ammuna Lawan Ali OON – Independent Non-Executive Director; Mr Chika Nwobi – Independent Non-Executive Director; Mr Felix Enwemadu – Executive Director; Mrs Adesola Sotande-Peters – Executive Director; and Mr Mutiu Sunmonu CON, FNSE – Independent Non-Executive Director.