Composite e-commerce giant, Konga has concluded plans to roll out a loyalty programme as well as an exclusive club for shoppers in a bid to elevate standards and deliver world-class, luxury experience for aspiring customers. The two clubs – Konga Prime and Konga Prime Plus are set for launch in July 2020 ­–  and will offer members rarefied, exclusive access to a wide range of exciting benefits. The first, Konga Prime, sources at the company disclose, represents Konga’s loyalty programme for shoppers. Interested customers will have the opportunity of attaining membership of this loyalty club by subscribing to enjoy access to the many exciting benefits it offers. On the other hand, Konga Prime Plus – an advanced, upgraded version, is an executive club designed specifically for 21st century, lifestyle-savvy Nigerians with an eye for luxury and who desire to do big things. Sources claim it is an unprecedented, exclusive club never before seen in the corporate space on this side of the Atlantic. Also, members of Konga Prime can upgrade via subscription to Konga Prime Plus which offers a suite of elevated offerings. Both clubs, however, will equally offer unique user IDs to members. The development comes as Konga prepares to raise the curtains on its eight anniversary celebration this month. Founded in 2012, Konga has continued to set the pace in the Nigerian e-commerce space, with a series of exciting and customer-centric innovations which have made it the e-commerce brand of first choice for millions of Nigerians. Feelers from reliable sources at Konga indicate that the loyalty clubs will attract membership from a broad-based retinue of Nigerian e-commerce shoppers and enthusiasts in search of an elevated user experience. Indeed, the Konga Prime loyalty club, the entry level version,will be a chance for eager shoppers to distinguish themselves as loyal patrons of the Konga brand, giving them a chance to take advantage of a number of delightful experiences. However, Konga Prime Plus, its more advanced counterpart, will deliver luxurious, exotic and highly customisable offerings to members. Details of these world-class benefits, the sources reveal, are quite mouth-watering and will be unveiled by Konga in the days ahead. In addition, members are expected to benefit from a series of new partnerships currently being concluded by the management of the company. These partnerships, which sources at the company disclosed that the management is still keeping close to its chest, will offer Konga access to a suite of VIP services and experiences, which the company will make available to members of Konga Prime Plus as well as Konga Prime members who upgrade to the elevated service.