WorldStage Newsonline– Nigeria LNG Limited has expressed its readiness to partner with the Government of Rivers State as it deals with the enormous responsibility of preserving lives and ultimately livelihoods in the state, including its operation base, the Bonny Kingdom, in view of the onslaught of Coronavirus pandemic in the state. Mr Tony Attah, MD/CEO, NLNG in his remarks during a meeting with Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State on Monday, 8th June, 2020, said, “It is clear that in these extra-ordinary times, a collective resolve to collaborate, solve problems and make sacrifices is warranted.” He listed some of Nigeria LNG’s interventions against the spread of Coronavirus in Bonny since the onset of the pandemic in the country to include, triggering critical preventive measures in its operations very early and promptly initiated engagements with relevant Rivers State and Bonny Local Government authorities. He said the outcome of these engagements brought Nigeria LNG to the forefront of implementing interventions in the Kingdom and included: Food palliatives for the community to alleviate hardshipin the midst ofrestrictions on movement and business activities; Establishment of a well-equipped ten-bed Holding Centre for Covid-19 patientsat the Bonny Zonal Hospital to accommodate a potential outbreak and need for isolation. This facility is presently being upgraded to a Treatment Centre on the advice of Rivers State Government; Sundry donations of medical equipment and PPEs to Bonny Zonal Hospital; Strategic and tactical support to Bonny Local Government Council on enlightenment and risk communication against Covid-19 in the Kingdom; Donation of vehicles and sundry medical equipmentwas also made to Rivers State as well as a pledge of US$1Million to support Rivers State University Teaching Hospital in the fight against Covid-18. “We acknowledge that our interventions will not solve all the problems of this public health crisis. However, it signifies Nigeria LNG’s determination to support the State and in particular, the people of Bonny Kingdom,” he said. He acknowledged that more needed to be done as Bonny Island, one of the most unique energy corridors in the world, must be spared the ravages of the crisis. He said even before the pandemic, the gas giant had initiated some health related projects which include Bonny Comprehensive Health Insurance Programme: Bringing health care to the reach of those who cannot ordinarily afford it. The scheme now has over 1400 subscribers; and Bonny Malaria Elimination Programme which currently in its pre-elimination phase, and which will afford Bonny the status of the first Malaria/mosquito free city in Nigeria, if not in West Africa. “We remain resolved in our belief, that Coronavirus will be defeated in Nigeria. The aspiration of all of us here, is that Bonny will not only overcome but will truly flourish. It will be healthy, peaceful and continue to enjoy economic prosperity. Its success will be emblematic of the life-long partnerships we all share with this great Kingdom,” he assured. Meanwhile, the NLNG boss had blamed the ongoing pandemic for the delay in the formal commissioning of the company’s new Corporate Head Office at Eastern By-Pass in Port Harcourt. He told the governor that the initial plan was to host the event early this year. “We shall hold the commissioning of this impressive edifice as soon as practically possible,” he assured.