The Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) has called on Africans to make use of the opportunity provided by COVID-19 pandemic to expedite action on the launch of single market. Mr David Tsokar, the National Communication Officer, FAO, said this in a statement on Thursday in Abuja. Tsokar said the effect of the coronavirus pandemics presented an opportunity for African countries to accelerate the shift towards a single market. He said this became necessary in order for the continent to make a paradigm shift to be able to fend for itself and reduced its dependence on food imports. Tsokar said the move would help to open up continental trade routes and economic opportunities in the long-term, but presents an even greater short-term advantage. He said that it would allowed African countries to keep their food systems alive to avert what could be the worst food crises in its history. He stated that lowering intra-regional import tariffs would facilitates the movement of agricultural products that would help addressed the immediate concern around the possibility of low food supplies He added that it would also help to cushion the general food insecurity, while laying the foundation for long-term policies. “Africa’s agricultural exports comprise mostly cash crops like cocoa, coffee and spices, which have relatively limited markets in Africa, while basic food products are imported, indicating the need to prioritise a more diverse trade basket of goods.’’ Tsokar called on government to also build buyer-supplier networks, connecting small and medium scale producers, including smallholder farmers, to buyers locally and regionally. “A large part of this step is the removal of discretionary constraints such as import and export restrictions that distort trade to connect these producers to their markets. “It is essential to remove non-tariff barriers like transport and logistics bottlenecks, which have long been a deterrent for the efficient movement of goods and services between African countries.’’ He urged governments to implement policies to support local production, adding that such policies would help develop regional value chains, strengthening national food production capacities and linkages to regional markets He said this would in turn provide a strong basis for countries to export and boost inter-and intra-regional trade in the long-term. He stated that AfCFTA provided a viable platform for import substitution, promotion of regional agricultural value chains and more diversified supply chains, and local production and consumption of goods and services. “This is a golden opportunity to expedite the launch of the AfCFTA in phases to mitigate the food-system and economic effects of the COVID-19 pandemic,” he added.