The oil and gas industry has been strengthened and elevated with simplified vocabulary to promote effective communication aimed at improved business transactions and processes. The bolstered language is contained in a new book, entitled, The Language of Oil & Gas, and it is specifically designed to assist industry players and non-experts with clear understanding of the industry’s business and operations. The bookis anenriched dictionarywith complete explanation of oil and gas terminology, including detailed definitions that are extensively cross referenced on the upstream, midstream and downstream sub-sectors and developments in the industry. Written byMichael Owhoko, a renowned journalist and author, the well-researched lingoalso serves as a tool and a bridge for those whose activities revolve round the industry, enabling them to understand thepeculiar petroleum language. “Most times, people do not realize the technical depth of the oil and gas industry until they are mid-way into the process.  The essence of the book is to provide a clear understanding of the industry jargon in a simplified form to enable stakeholders appreciate and have a deeper knowledge of the industry”, Owhoko revealed in the book. The book which is an updated version, is a must read not only because of its relevance to the business community but its impact on world economies andhuman existence, making it a collector’s choice. The Language of Oil & Gas is published in the United States of America and it is currently on sale on Amazon, Barnes and Nobles and other major bookstores worldwide. *Michael Owhoko is a journalist, author and public relations practitioner who has mostly worked in the banking, oil and gas, and media industries.  He is the publisher of Media Issues, an online newspaper that can be found at http://www.mediaissuesng.com. He is also the author of Career Frustration in the Workplace; Nigeria on the Precipice: Issues, Options, and Solutions; The Future of Nigeria; and Feminism: The Agony of Men.