Konga, Nigeria’s composite e-Commerce giant is set to roll out its flash sales today, Monday June 29, 2020 as part of efforts to mark its eighth anniversary celebrations. The flash sales, four daily, are set to go live by 10am, 2pm, 4pm and 6pm. Equally important, the flash sales are expected to be a daily feature of the eighth anniversary celebrations effective today, Monday June 29 until the end of the promotion on Tuesday, July 2, 2020 – a development that has heralded intense excitement among eager shoppers, many of whom have awaited the commencement of the flash sales with keen anticipation. Meanwhile, the daily flash sales are expected to provide lucky customers an opportunity to claim a number of exciting products at highly discounted prices. This is in addition to the offer of free deliveries for orders which will coincide with the days for the flash sales. A number of amazing products have been lined up for the flash sales which will run daily across multiple product categories including mobile phones, computing and devices, electronics, FMCG products, kitchen appliances, fashion and much more. The palpable excitement among bargain-hungry shoppers for the flash sales stems from the fact that it is a unique opportunity to enjoy unmatched discounts or giveaway prices on the items or products up for sale. Further adding to the excitement is the fact that the flash sales are time-bound, thus adding a spice of suspense and adventure to the fun as shoppers compete for the chance to claim the products on offer. AwaniOlamide, a customer who has shopped on Konga since inception, says it is one of the most thrilling discount offers to partake in. ‘‘Konga flash sales are very exciting affairs. Due to the huge interest from shoppers all competing for the items, it is often filled with anticipation, suspense and sheer delight at the end for the lucky winners. It is more like a case of the fastest fingers. ‘‘To stand a chance of winning, a prospective shopper must be sharp and hooked to Konga online at all times. You cannot afford to sleep on it or join in when it has already started. The products can drop at any time once the flash sales start. So, my advice: if you are not yet doing so, you have to ensure you are following Konga on their various social media platforms in order to keep abreast of developments. ‘‘Having shopped on Konga for so many years, I have participated in numerous flash sales so I have a fair bit of experience,’’ he concluded. The flash sales are a continuation of a three-week long massive sales extravaganza put together by Konga to appreciate its customers as it marks eight years of outstanding achievements in the Nigerian e-Commerce space. Founded in July 2012, Konga has remained at the forefront of the Nigerian e-commerce industry, with a long list of innovative strides and achievements that have made it the e-commerce brand of first choice for millions of Nigerians.