The South-West Chairman of the Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria (RIFAN), Mr Segun Atho, has called for the revamping of the Nigerian agricultural sector as part of  post COVID-19 efforts to aid economic growth. Atho made this call in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday in Lagos. He said  that the pandemic had affected virtually every sector of the nation’s economy. He said that if  the challenges posed by the pandemic could be  harnessed properly, they would become assets that would enhance the development of all sectors concerned. “ COVID-19 pandemic has affected a lot of things but if it is well harnessed, we can ameliorate its effects in such a way that every sector in the country will be fine. “Nigeria is blessed with vast land suitable for any agricultural produce; if our government can harness all these advantages, we will have no cause for alarm after the pandemic. “If our agricultural sector is robust, it will also help us to create jobs in the country.  It is most likely that after the COVID-19 pandemic, a lot of companies are still going to retrench some of their staff. “Hence,  the need to revamp our agricultural sector so that  at the end of the day, the sector can be an alternative to boosting our economy for progressive development. “If we revamp our agricultural sector, it will in turn lead to large exportation of our produce to other countries and a growth leap for our economy,” he told NAN. Atho called for an  inward retrospection as a nation and less dependence on other countries for agricultural produce.
In addition, he called for government support at all levels. “We should stop playing politics with our agricultural sector. “I envisage that after the COVID-19 pandemic what is the way forward? “Do we still continue to rely on imported food and agricultural products? No, we have to continue to look within and rely on ourselves. “The problem we are facing as a nation today is primarily because we are too dependent on other nations. Let us develop  the spirit of ‘Yes we can’ in our culture. “Let all hands be on deck to produce sufficient and abundant agricultural produce for our people to consume,” Atho said. He explained that he did  not see the COVID-19 pandemic posing any problem to the nation’s  agricultural sector, except those who would  want to exploit people for their own selfish benefits. Atho also appealed to the government to come to farmers’ aid in financing, adding that if one-tenth of the money donated by private individuals to fight COVID-19 is ploughed  into agriculture , there would be boom. “In terms of rice production, we are at present on course. “The only thing that has been  affecting  all farmers is the security bottleneck but we thank God today that they have exempted all the essential service providers,” he said.