The Developing-8 Organisation for Economic Cooperation (D-8) says the organisation had since June 15, 1997, become an economic powerhouse with combined record of $4 trillion GDP and $110 billion intra trade. The Secretary-General of D-8, Amb. Dato’ Ku Jaafar Ku Shaari, said this in a telephone interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday in Abuja. He spoke on the sidelines of his official address to comemorate the 23rd anniversary since the establishment of the D-8. According to him, D-8 seeks to improve member states’ position in global economy, diversify and create new opportunities in trade relations, enhance participation at international level and improve standards of living. Ku Shaari said: “23 years ago our Leaders came together to establish bold vision for the social and economic development of their countries and for navigating the difficulty of global interdependence. “They established the D-8 for economic cooperation; a democratic framework for the eight most populous and dynamic developing economies that will help them thrive in all socioeconomic development. “After 23 years, the D-8 has turned itself into an economic powerhouse of a combined GDP of $4 trillion and $110 billion intra trades, further extending and deepening cooperation in various sectoral tracks. “During these 23 years, with ever-increasing cooperation and solidarity, member states have achieved many milestones in key priority areas. “We have not only strengthened our partnership within but also established new avenues of cooperation with international organizations, chambers of commerce, business world and the private sector.” He noted that despite the success and many milestones been recorded were not without major setbacks, saying “we are vigilant towards the health crisis and many economic challenges that it portends”. He further expressed his firm belief that in a time of crisis, the D-8 would act as the veritable platform of support and play its part in uniting the member states. “With our solidarity and cooperation, we will come out stronger, more resilient and more united once again,” he added. He extolled the founding father of the D-8, late Necmettin Erbakan, for his lofty vision and also the member states for reaffirming their commitment to the organisation since past 23 years. He revealed that the chairmanship of D-8 would be handed over to Bangladesh from Turkey at the 10th D-8 Summit, which would be held by Bangladesh. He, however, urged member states of the organisation not to relent in their commitment to their cause for economic development and pray that they continue to reap the fruits of their endeavours. The establishment of D-8 was based on the Istanbul Declaration at the Heads of State/Government summit as organisation for development cooperation among Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia, Iran, Malaysia, Nigeria, Pakistan and Turkey.