The Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) says 20 ships laden with petroleum products, food items and other goods have arrived Lagos Ports waiting to berth. NPA made this known in its publication, `Shipping Position’, a copy of which was made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos on Friday. According to it, the ships are carrying containers, bulk wheat, general cargo, frozen fish and petrol. NPA said that 17 ships were expected at the ports with frozen fish, base oil, general cargo, bulk salt, container, bulk wheat and soya bean. It added that the ships were expected between June 5 and June 25. Also, the organisation said that 17 other ships were at the ports discharging general cargo, containers, bulk wheat, bulk fertiliser, petrol, butane and frozen fish. 13 AT DELTA PORTS The Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) says 13 ships laden with various products are expected at Delta ports. The NPA made this known in its daily publication “Shipping Position”, a copy of which was obtained by the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Friday in Warri. The authority said the ships were laden with petrol, bitumen, wheat, diesel and general cargo. It listed some of the vessels to include: Matrix Asa, Ihem, MT San Biagio, MT Halima, MV Asian Enterprise and MT Tornado, among others. NPA also stated that it made declaration on four vessels laden with butane gas and petrol on Friday. “NPA made declaration on four vessels: LPG Laperouse, LPG Lubersac laden with butane gas and MT Sea Horse and MT SL Aremu laden with petrol,” the authority stated. It said that four vessels were awaiting at anchorage in Koko Midstream, Bennett and Koko anchorage. “Four vessels: AS Pioneer are awaiting at Koko Midstream to load 45×20 tons of Containers. “MT Mosunmola, MT Viveka and MT Safe Sea Neha 111, are also awaiting at Koko Midstream, Koko anchorage and Bennett to discharge inward diesel, bitumen and petrol respectively,” NPA said. It said that two vessels: MT Ozichukwu and Abiola were awaiting at Fairway Buoy to load 12,000 metric tons of crude oil each.