WorldStage Newsonline– Minister of Women Affairs, Dame Pauline Tallen, has reiterated Federal Government’s commitment to combating the rising menace of sexual violence in the country, saying, girl-child education and sexual violence were top on government’s agenda among numerous issues affecting women in Nigeria. Tallen in her remark during ”Covinspiration,” an online show moderated by Dayo Israel, a UN Special Representative and British Council Global Change – maker, said all hands must be on the deck to promote child-girl education and combat rising cases of rape and sexual molestation across the country. Tallen listed issues affecting women to include sexual and domestic violence, rape of the girl-child, gender imbalance, inadequate women representation in politics and governance, among others. “Before the COVID-19 lockdown, rape cases and violence against women have always been there, but with the coming of COVID-19, we are facing a pandemic of rape, sexual violence, domestic violence against minors and women. “The COVID-19 lockdown has created a situation where women and innocent children are locked down in the same room with their abusers. “It is a very sad and heartbreaking situation. My heart bleeds with all these cases we receive everyday. “Rape is a crime against humanity and rapists are murderers because when you rape a child, you destroy her life completely. How can we allow such people to live in a society with us? “Every organisation is crying out now against rape and the President himself has said that under his administration, children and women will be fully protected. “There is anger in everybody against rape. Our women and children have suffered enough. “Enforcement of the law has been the problem and lack of domestication of Child Rights Act in our various states,” she said. She said that President Muhammad’s Buhari had directed the Police and Ministry of Justice to ensure that all rape cases are brought to justice in a bid to stem the tide. The minister said that going forward, stiffer actions and penalties would be meted out to rapists. Tallen said the ministry, after COVID-19, would embark on aggressive advocacy and education against rape, sexual or gender based violence which would involve community leaders, youths and other stakeholders. According to her, the ministry will continue to create awareness, shout and expose culprits to ensure justice. The minister called for training of police desk officers to be receptive and kind enough to handle rape cases when reported by victims. Tallen said that the ministry was working with the Ministry of Education on how to make a difference in girl-child education. “The issue of girl-child education is a societal problem. It is a problem that concerns the ministry of women affairs. We are on the drivers’ seat and we will continue to do our best. “But there are so many stakeholders that must key in for us to achieve success; enlightenment of parents for support, communities must support, our traditional and religious leaders must support, before we can succeed. “We are willing and ready because the education of every child is paramount to this administration. Mr President has said this over and over. “Education is a right of every child. I strongly believe that if all hands are on deck to give each girl -child education, things will be different,” she said. The minister, who frowned at child marriage, said that all state governments must domesticate the  Child Right Act which mandated every child to be educated and fully protected for them to get the best. Tallen said that the government would continue to encourage, monitor and create a better world for children and women, urging parents to live up to their expectations as values had been eroded.