WorldStage Newsonline– Nigerian Agip Oil Company (NAOC) and its Joint Venture Partners, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and Oando Oil Limited have commissioned a COVID-19 Temporary Medical Infrastructure in Asaba, Delta State. The facility was inaugurated at the presence of the Governor of Delta State, Sen (Dr.) Ifeanyi Okowa, Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, Group Managing Director of NNPC, Mele Kyari and representative of Vice Chairman and Managing Director of NAOC, Mr. Lorenzo Fiorillo. The Medical Centre is part of the Oil and Gas Industry intervention implemented in various States across Nigeria in response to the outbreak of the pandemic, and it is aimed at providing a critical infrastructure to stem the spread of Covid-19 within Delta State and its environ.  It consists of isolation blocks with a capacity of 70 beds and separate sections for male and female, confirmed and unconfirmed cases. It also features a block for the medical personnel. Others facilities at the Centre include Lounge/Waiting Rooms, Pharmacy, CCTV Room, X-Ray Room, Side Laboratory, Power Generating Set, amongst others. NAOC and the entire Oil and Gas Industry in Nigeria have been actively collaborated with the government, in response to the Pandemic having realized that defeating the scourge at this critical period, would require the concerted, collective and sustainable effort of all stakeholders. The industry has implemented a set of initiatives and contributions, targeted at combating the spread of the virus and mitigating the impact on the people. NAOC and its JV Partners have over the years carried out sustainable initiatives in its host communities through various human and socio-economic development programs, including access to quality healthcare. As part of the health interventions, NAOC JV has provided modern medical facilities and facilitated access to healthcare delivery in our various communities to engender the well-being of women, children, the elderly, men and the vulnerable groups directly benefitting from the medical services. Between 2010 and 2018, NAOC  and its JV partners have completed over 405 projects in the four states where it operates (Bayelsa, Delta, Imo, Rivers) including 74 school buildings, 35 health centres, 165 projects aimed to building roads/drains, 41 projects providing access to water and 90 social and cultural projects, thus contributing to improve the well-being and the quality of life of about 118 rural communities. The Company also promotes access to affordable, reliable and sustainable energy in the Niger Delta by connecting about 300,000 beneficiaries to NAOC JV main facilities (around 39 MW power capacity); establishing off-grid systems for about 165,000 beneficiaries (around 12.5 MW power capacity) and connecting about 30,000 beneficiaries to the national grid. The Green River Project, NAOC JV’s flagship project aimed to promote food security and sustainable agriculture in the Niger Delta, has directly involved over 38,550 farmers and indirectly supported more than half a million people since its inception in 1987.