Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC)  says rescue operations have so far recovered a burnt body beyond recognition at the scene of Sunday’s explosion, involving four vehicles along Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that rescue operations were still ongoing at the scene of the accident involving three tankers and a truck. Providing update at 9:00a.m., Mr Olusegun Ogungbemide, FRSC  Lagos State Sector Commander,  said that two injured persons been moved to the hospital. “The inferno as a result of the explosion  is almost getting to an end. The fire services are  still here from Lagos and Ogun states. “So far, we have been able to move two casualties to the General Hospital Gbagada. One was burnt beyond recognition. “The accident involved three tankers and one truck. Two of the tankers carrying petrol, another carrying gas and an articulated truck,” he said. On the possible cause of the accident, Ogungbemide, who noted that  investigation was still ongoing, said that observations revealed that one of the tankers lost control and rammed  into others which resulted in the explosion. “It was a loss of control. One of the tankers that rammed  into other vehicles either had break failure or got distracted. Investigation is still on, we can’t just be accurate now,” he said.
FRSC had earlier announced diversion of traffic on Lagos-Ibadan Expressway,  following the explosion to avert a chaotic traffic situation on the busiest highway.  The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) has announced diversion of traffic on Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, following an explosion involving four trailers on Sunday morning at Kara Bridge. The Lagos State Sector Commander of FRSC, Mr Olusegun Ogungbemide, made the announcement in a statement on Sunday in Lagos. “Following the unfortunate crash that involved three fuel tankers and one other trailer that were engulfed in an inferno in the early hours of the day, FRSC operatives immediately mobilised and invited fire servicemen to extinguish the fire. “The situation, expectedly, impaired traffic situation around the scene of the fire outbreak and beyond. “This affected motorists, especially those driving out of Lagos. “To cushion the effect on the road users, FRSC temporarily diverted traffic between New Garage and the end of Kara bridge to allow a counter-flow for Ibadan bound traffic to use a lane from the Lagos bound section of the expressway. “FRSC hereby admonished motorists using the temporary lane to obey instructions from traffic officials around the scene of the crash and urged them to drive with caution,’’ Ogungbemide said. According to him, while the burning fire is being extinguished and waiting to clear up the wreckages off the road, motorists who are not close to the scene are advised to explore alternative routes. “Those travelling from Ibadan may turn at Sagamu interchange and use Abeokuta to Lagos through Sango Otta, Abule Egba, Iyana-Ipaja. “People travelling out of Lagos may also use the above route and travellers from Lagos Island can explore Victoria Island, Ajah to Ijebu Ode to continue their journey. “However, motorists around Mowe, Ibafo entering into Lagos or vice-versa using the temporary lane should please drive with extreme caution.” The sector commander, who urged motorists to drive with care, said that FRSC wished everyone safe journeys to their various destinations. FRESH FIRE DELAYS OPENING OUT-BOUND LANE The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) says a fresh explosion from the scene of Sunday morning inferno, involving four vehicles on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, has delayed the opening of out-bound Lagos lane for motorists. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that rescue operations that began in the early morning were still ongoing at the scene of the accident involving three tankers and a truck on Kara Bridge when another explosion occurred. Providing an update, Mr Olusegun Ogungbemide, FRSC Sector Commander in Lagos State, told NAN that the fresh fire affected the rescue operations. Ogungbemide, however, said that the situation had been brought under control, urging motorists to be patient and drive with care. “There was this fresh explosion from gas tanker (one of the tankers involved in the accident). “The cover of the tanker opened and another fire billow up, but it is under control. “We had restricted movements to the inward Lagos route for in and out motorists,’’ Ogungbemide said. He said that fire services from Lagos and Ogun states “are on ground to bring normalcy back on the expressway’’. Ogungbemide earlier told NAN that the rescue operations recovered a body burnt beyond recognition from the inferno while two persons were injured. He said that two injured had been moved to Gbagada General Hospital.