The Governor of Ekiti State, Dr Kayode Fayemi has said that the agriculture development projects embarked on by the administration remain his main legacy project amid other legacy projects. This, according to him is borne out of the need to use agriculture business to drive industrialisation, create employment opportunities and ensure food security in the state. Governor Fayemi who stated this during an inspection of ongoing projects across the state on Friday, expressed confidence that the State’s agro allied cargo airport and other legacy projects of the administration would be completed before the expiration of his tenure. He also assured that the State Civic Centre, Oja Oba complex and other projects in focus for completion this year would be ready for commissioning before October. Fayemi, in company with the Commissioner for Works and Transport, Mr Sola Adebayo and other top officials, had inspected some projects including the Civic centre, cargo airport, the ultra-modern Oja Oba market, Igbemo-Ire -Ilupeju road, New Ado-Iyin road and Agbado-ode road and Ote-Ikun-Otun road projects. The Governor said: “These are legacy projects and quite important but the real legacy project for us is our agric project. The Agric processing zone, the silo is coming to activities shortly, a juice factory would also be opened alongside the place, Dangote Mill is coming up there, GMK Mill is coming up there. “All these are going on, we are on course, the resources are limited, but we are trying our best to ensure we get the best for our people.” Fayemi said his administration was using creativity and innovation to manage the limited resources available to the State and to ensure that the projects were not left unattended to. The Governor, said a lot of work has been done at Ikun dairy farm that accommodated local and foreign cows meant to produce 10,000 litres of milk daily. He said; “Yes, I am confident that this project (airport project) would be completed before I leave Ekiti as Governor by God’s grace, that’s not even in doubt at all, but as per the other projects, you were there with us this morning, the Civic centre will be commissioned definitely in October, Oja Oba will be commissioned in October as well and all the other projects that we are focused on. The Governor, who expressed satisfaction at the pace and quality of work done on the projects, urged the contractors to endeavour to fulfil their side of the bargain, while assuring them of government’s support.