The number of coronavirus cases recorded worldwide has topped 25 million, according to data compiled by U.S. researchers. In the United States, which has the highest case tally of any country, infection numbers are nearing six million, according to figures from Johns Hopkins University updated on Sunday night. Brazil has the second-highest number of cases, at almost 3.9 million, followed by India, which has recorded more than 3.5 million. The U.S. has the highest number of COVID-19 deaths, at more than 183,000, followed by Brazil with more than 120,000 and Mexico with over 64,000. The figures from the Baltimore-based University put global deaths at more than 845,000. The Johns Hopkins tracker website is regularly updated with incoming figures and tends to show higher numbers than those officially counted by the World Health Organisation (WHO). However, in some cases, figures have been later corrected downwards. Experts expect that official numbers do not reflect the full picture of the spread of the coronavirus, as it is unlikely all COVID-19 deaths and cases of infection have been recorded. Nigeria records 53,865 The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) reported 138 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, bringing the nation’s confirmed cases to 53,865. The NCDC made this known on its official twitter handle on Sunday. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the 138 fresh cases were the lowest COVID-19 number in months in the country. Till date, 53,865 cases have been confirmed with 41,513 cases discharged and 1,013 deaths recorded in 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The public health agency said that two new fatalities were recorded, pushing the total to 1,013. NCDC noted that the new cases were reported from 13 states and FCT. It revealed that Plateau again had the highest number of infections with 55 cases, while Lagos, Ebonyi and Oyo recorded 15, 11 and 11 cases, respectively. Others were Abia – eight, Anambra – seven, FCT – seven, Rivers – seven, Kaduna – six, Ondo – five, Kwara – three, Bauchi – one, Benue – one and Edo – one. It said that a multi-sectoral national emergency operations centre (EOC), activated at Level 3, have continued to coordinate the national response activities across the country. The NCDC said that Nigerians increase their risk of COVID-19 infection whenever they do not wear face mask to public places. It, however, advised Nigerians to ensure that they wear their face mask properly at all times and adhere to all non-pharmaceutical measures on COVID-19 prevention. The agency advised all states where election would be conducted, this period, to take responsibility by adhering to guidelines, so as to protect themselves and loved ones from COVID-19. “Take responsibility, stay safe and healthy, wear a face mask, wash your hands frequently, cough/sneeze into your elbow, maintain physical distance, don’t  share personal items and adhere to other COVID-19 prevention measures,’’ it advised.