WorldStage Newsonline– The Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority (NEPZA) and Future Africa, a private firm are set to jointly deploy technology to spark up interests and participation in Nigeria’s free trade zones scheme. The organisations had considered the possibility of triggering wider participation of the business community in the scheme when Mr Iyinoluwa Aboyeji, Country’s Partner, Future Africa paid Prof. Adesoji Adesugba, Managing Director, NEPZA a courtesy visit in Abuja. Adesugba, in a statement by Mr Martins Odeh, Head, Corporate Communications, NEPZA, said technology remained the quickest accelerator of modern business. Adesugba added that the authority was ready to partner with Future Africa and other of such firms to use technology and innovation in running the country’s 42 free trade zones. “Nigeria stands out when we talk about innovation and technology in Africa, but we may have to engage in the training of our youth to redirect their psychic to exploit the systems more positively. `The youth remain the technology talent hub that we can leverage on to create the wealth for our nation. “We have a dream of being at the fore front of the industrialisation of Nigeria. “The free trade zones are supposed to be the foreign countries in our country that relentless promote industrialisation through creation of wealth, free tax regime, seamless infrastructure and transportation system to drive the process,” he said. He said NEPZA was desirous of establishing more free trade zones to attract Foreign Direct Investment (FDI), supports revenue generation and values for the economy. The NEPZA boss said on discovering that the country needed more free trade zones, it was therefore looking at a possibility of creating special environment or zones for constituency projects. “This, we can do by establishing talent hot-spots for young people, Skill Acquisition Centers and all such job creation out-fits that can ignite production at the grassroots, ”Adesugba added. Adesugba further explained that it would activate its four focus areas which included technology, agriculture, solid mineral and healthcare to fast track industrialisation process. He added that a synergy with Future Africa would help to drive the process. On his part, Aboyeji expressed delight on the “open door policy’’ of the new NEPZA Chief Executive. Aboyeji added that Adesugba’s appointment only indicated how President Muhammadu Buhari was genuinely prepared to reposition the authority and the country’s economy as a whole. He explained that technology and innovation were the backbone of any economy, adding that Future Africa’s collaboration with NEPZA would yield the right dividend in the promotion of the country’s free trade zones. He said the firm had selected Tinapa and Rendezvour located in Calabar and Alaro City free trade zone, Lekki, Lagos respectively to commence the first phase of its operation. Aboyeji said the company has the intent of making its presence felt in all the zones. He stated that innovations and possibilities were arising from the use of technology, adding that technology-supported investments in and out of the country would open up an endless stream of global opportunities for a new generation of investors. Future Africa ,is a platform that provides capital, coaching and community for mission driven innovators.