* FG should  declare ICT  as critical national infrastructure – CPN *5G  to transform Nigeria  in the area of smart city, smart transportation, efficiency in medicine WorldStage Newsonline– The Computers Professionals Council of Nigeria (CPN) has called on the Federal Government to play its part to ease the entrant of the 5G Network technology in Nigeria whilst highlighting the importance of embracing the 5G network into the country’s economy. Engr. Deus Uche Osuji, the keynote speaker at annual Information Technology Assembly which was held virtually this year, noted the challenges and the prospects of the new technology. This event is in consonant with the enormous efforts of the National Communications Commission and the Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy towards easing the entrants of the 5G Technology through reduction of cost of installation, quick and affordable access to citizens and more. According to a statement signed by the Council’s President and Chairman-in-Council, Prof. Charles O. Uwadia, and the Registrar and Secretary-in-Council, Allwell C. Achumba, the theme of this year’s assembly “Adoption of 5G in Nigeria: The Technological and Regulatory Challenges” was carefully selected to address all the misgivings, misinterpretations and misconceptions surrounding the issue of adoption and deployment of the 5G network in Nigeria. In his presentation, Engr. Deus Uche Osuji who is General Manager, Network Services at MTN Nigeria, said aside the numerous advantages which include faster internet connection, smoother user experience and huge deployment of Information Technology to drive growth and development of industries, the 5G network will fast track Nigeria’s economic growth and migrate us fully into a digital economy. As part of the recommendations from the event, the CPN wanted  the federal government to intensify on their efforts at providing stable power supply to Nigerians so that citizens can enjoy the new technology once deployed. Besides that, it said the cost of installing the technology had been quite disturbing for investors, while  also appealed to the necessary government agencies to reduce the cost of installing the technology. “This will in turn reduce the cost of purchasing a 5G device thereby easing access to the benefits of the technology by all and sundry,” the statement said. “Most importantly, the CPN enjoined the federal government to declare Information Technology and Telecommunications as a critical national infrastructure to facilitate the success of the national broadband strategy.” The statement further said the adoption of 5G Network in Nigeria will bring about transformation in the country in the area of smart city, smart transportation, efficiency in medicine as well as a lot of automation in respect of our appliances and devices with respect to Internet of Things (IoT). “For the CPN’s President, Professor Charles O. Uwadia, this year’s assembly is a testament to the Council’s commitment towards achieving a successful virtual conference despite the challenges posed by the corona virus pandemic. The Council has delivered on its mandate to convoke a world-class Virtual IT Professionals’ Assembly worthy of emulation by other Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs),” the statement said. 