The Military High Command, on Thursday said th troops of OPERATION SANITY, have successfully arrested three notorious illegal arms smuggling syndicate who specialize in massive arms supply to bandits in the North West from across the international borders in Sokoto State. The Coordinator, Defence Media Operations, Major General John Enenche while giving a general update on weekly operations of the Armed Forces of Nigeria and other security agencies across the Country from 13th to 19th of August 2020 said the three  suspects all Nigerien citizens were intercepted at Dantudu in Mailailai District of Sabon Birni LGA of Sokoto State with 6 AK 47 Rifles, 3 AK 47 Rifle magazines and 2,415 rounds of 7.62mm Special ammunition concealed in various parts of their vehicle. On update of troops operations in the North East Zone, Gen. Enenche said, several air interdiction operations were conducted at identified Boko Haram Terrorists (BHTs) and Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) targets in the Lake Chad and Sambisa Forest areas of Borno State. These attacks were conducted at Tumbuma Baba, on 16 August 2020, one of the Island settlements on the fringes of the Lake Chad. Additionally, the logistics facilities of BHT at BukarMeram on the fringes of the Lake Chad were also destroyed on 17 August 2020. He said, “The attack on the locations scored devastating hits on the settlement, killing not fewer than 20 terrorists and destroying their structures. Several BHT and ISWAP commanders were also killed and some of their dwellings destroyed at Boboshe, a village along the river line on the eastern part of the Sambisa Forest. “Meanwhile, troops of Army Super Camp 9, on 16 August 2020, engaged BHTs and ISWAP elements during clearance operations at Dikwa LGA of Borno State. During the operation, 2 terrorists were neutralized while one AK 47 rifle and 8 rounds of 7.62mm (special) were recovered. Similarly, troops of Strong Response Area, Pulka while on a fighting patrol, encountered and engaged BHTs/ISWAP elements along Road Pulka-Firgi-Banki Junction in Gwoza LGA of Borno State. “In the process, a terrorist was neutralized while 2 fully loaded AK 47 rifles, two 36 hand grenades, one motorcycle and IED materials were recovered by the troops. Similarly, troops of 144 Battalion on ambush operation encountered and engaged BHTs/ISWAP elements at WaggaMangoro and WaggaLawal in the same LGA. The terrorists fled due to superior fire power of the troops. In another encounter troops of 151 Task Force Battalion neutralized 2 terrorists along Road Banki-Pulka in Bama LGA of Borno State. North-West Zone According Gen. Enenche, “troops of Operation HADARIN DAJI have continued to record tremendous successes against the bandits. Within the period under review, in a combined special clearance operation, troops of operation SAHEL SANITY destroyed 12 bandit camps at Yobe Baranda in Batsari LGA of Katsina State. Three armed bandits were also neutralized in the process while others escaped with various degrees of gunshot wounds. SOUTH-SOUTH ZONE He explained that “Within the period under review, Nigerian Navy Ship PATHFINDER patrol team discovered an illegal refining site at Okorosa Creek. The site had a reservoir laden with an estimated 943.47 barrels of product suspected to be crude oil. The site was deactivated. Similarly, on 14 August 2020, another site was discovered at Yalama community in Akokoturo LGA Rivers State. The site, which had 2 metal reservoirs laden with an estimated 150,000 litres of illegally refined AGO was deactivated. “Relatedly, personnel of Nigerian Navy Ship DELTA deployed onboard the Ocean Marine Solutions Houseboat along Yeye Creek in Burutu LGA of Delta State visited a previously deactivated Illegal Refining Site around Fonkro Community. The site was observed to have been reactivated and had 6 ovens, 7 surface metal storage tanks and 3 dugout pits cumulatively laden with about 120,000 litres of product suspected to be illegally refined AGO and 566.08 barrels of product suspected to be stolen crude oil. “The storage facilities and product were dismantled while the site was earmarked for swamp buggy operation. Additionally, on 15 Aug 20, at Ikpemu Community along Jones Creek in Warri South LGA of Delta State, the patrol team intercepted and impounded a large wooden boat laden with about 132,000 litres of products suspected to be illegally refined AGO. NORTH CENTRAL ZONE “Notably, on 13 August 2020, troops of Operation SAFE HAVEN intercepted and nabbed 5 suspected armed robbers at a snap checkpoint established at Makera. The suspects were arrested along with a red Vectra car with registration number PLATEAU BF-335-JJN used in perpetrating their heinous crimes. The criminals confessed to be members of a syndicate who specialize in robbing unsuspecting passengers along the highways. The suspects are being profiled after which they will be handed over to the Nigeria Police for further action. Troops also apprehended 2 armed robbers following credible intelligence report on their activities in Rukkaya village of Mavo district in Wase LGA of Plateau State. “Additionally, the Air Component of Operation THUNDER STRIKE equally neutralized several armed bandits at their camp in the Kuduru Forest area of Kaduna State on 13 August 2020. The feat was achieved through air strikes carried out on the heels of intelligence reports indicating the convergence of members of an Ansaru Terrorist Sect-linked bandits group, led by one Mallam Abba, at the location. Aerial surveillance missions conducted over the area also observed some bandits, wielding weapons in the forest. Several of the bandits were killed as the attack aircraft strafed the area, while others attempting to escape were mopped-up in follow-on attacks. “Meanwhile, troops of Nigerian Navy Ship LUGARD stationed at Olamaboro LGA of Kogi State, on 15 August 2020 arrested 2 suspected armed bandits. The arrests were made at Abarkponi Guest House in Okpo Community of Olamaboro LGA following a tip-off. Items recovered from the suspects include a service pistol, charms and GSM handsets. The suspects and recovered items were handed over to the Nigeria Police for further investigation and prosecution. “Relatedly, on 18 August 2020, troops of Sector 2 Operation WHIRL STROKE acting on credible intelligence on the location of a hideout being used by some armed militia linked to wanted Benue militia leader TerwaseAkwaza aka Gana around Abaji in Katsina Ala LGA of Benue State, swiftly conducted a dawn raid operation on the identified hideout popularly known as small London located at Amafu village. Contact was made with the armed militia men, troops swiftly responded with superior fire forcing them to flee in disarray into the surrounding forest. One of the wanted kingpins, Mr Atsor AKA smallie was neutralized during the encounter while others escaped. Troops recovered one AK 47 rifle and 17 rounds of 7.62mm special ammunition during the operation.”