WorldStage Newsonline– In a bid to reduce the cost of power disturbances from a whopping 29 billion dollars, Schneider Electric has intervened by inaugurating a range of smart solutions adaptable to the Nigerian environment. The range of products unleashed on the market by Schneider Electric, the leader in the digital transformation of energy management and automation, are categorised into critical power management, smart homes, lighting, and distribution solutions. According to figures from the World Bank, the Nigerian economy annually loses as much as 29 billion dollars to power disturbances across its various sectors. Mr Mojola Ola, Head of Partner and Buildings Business for Schneider Electric, Anglophone West Africa, said on Thursday high maintenance cost for appliances and installations through electrical fires and loss of lives, power disruptions, and total blackouts have continued to plague businesses and households in the country. “These solutions are safe because they avoid electrical fires and are efficient in helping one save money by reducing energy spend. “They are reliable by preventing the failure of electrical distribution; and are compliant because they demonstrate Schneider Electric’s commitment to sustainability, a key policy for the company. “With the right tools, you can leverage data for space management, occupant well-being, occupant engagement and operational efficiency,’’ he said in a statement. “These products lead to a reduction in maintenance, increase in productivity, and reduction in CO2 emission. “They will help customers reinvent buildings, particularly those of financial institutions, hotels, airports, healthcare, offices and even homes.” On COVID-19 pandemic, Ola said there was the need for space management to ensure safe distancing, monitoring of occupancy levels and adapting to office layout. “Also, occupants’ well-being is enhanced through the use of Schneider Electric’s Ecostruxure to confirm optimal humidity and to check air circulation. “To improve occupants’ engagement, the launched product guarantees effective communication, easy access to IT tools, and seamless navigation around the office. “Targeting operational efficiency, one of Schneider Electric’s new technology made provision for smarter cleaning, optimised building management, and power systems, as well as better management of amenities. “Beyond cost savings made from averting power disturbances, the Schneider Electric’s Ecostruxure recent initiatives have enormous benefits for Nigerian IT experts, business owners and corporate organizations, even for governments at various levels,’’ he said.