WorldStage Newsonline– The Kwara government has pledged to collaborate with the National Institute for Pharmaceutical Research and Development (NIPRD) in the production of quality herbal medicine. Gov. AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq stated this in Ilorin at the opening ceremony of a three-day training organised by the institute for traditional medical practitioners. A statement issued by the state’s Ministry of Health on Tuesday quoted AbdulRazaq as commending the pharmaceutical body for the training. The governor said the organisation had played a vital role in the nation’s health sector. AbdulRasaq, who said his administration would promote the production of herbal medicine in the state, also gave an assurance of his government’s readiness to partner with the institute on healthcare delivery. The governor also called for a “Nigerian formula” for COVID-19 that would stem from Kwara as an offshoot of the Madagascar vaccine. In his remarks, the senator representing Kwara Central, Dr Ibrahim Oloriegbe, called for initiatives to ensure that the dividends of democracy were made to reach his constituents and the state. The Commissioner for Health, Dr Razaq Raji, had earler called for the establishment of botanical gardens in different geo-political zones of the country. He commended Oloriegbe for his legislative support on the initiative. Also speaking, the Special Adviser to the Governor on Health Matters, Prof. Wale Suleiman, emphasised the need to ensure the quality and efficacy of all preparations. The Director-General of NIPRD, Dr Obi Adigwe, on his part, commended the governor for his proactiveness in the health sector, especially his commitment to the fight against the COVID-19 in the state. He said the outbreak of COVID-19 was an eye opener for Nigerians to pay attention to traditional medications. Adigwe disclosed that the institute would soon open its branch in the state in the bid to commence the production of standardised herbal preparations. According to him, the training, among other goals, was to ensure that the personnel and the products being produced by traditional practitioners were of high quality.