WorldStage Newsonline– The Defence Headquarters said in its determinant efforts to curb the recent attacks and isolated killings in Southern Kaduna, it has deployed special Operations Forces to the various flash points in the area. The Coordinator, Defence Media Operations, Maj.-Gen. John Enenche, at the updates briefing on military operations across the country on Thursday in Abuja said, “In a bid to curb the recent attacks and isolated killings in Southern Kaduna, troops of Operation “SAFE HAVEN” have continued to intensify efforts aimed at securing the lives and property in the general area. “Particularly, Special Operations Forces have been deployed to the Joint Operations Area covering the various flash points. “This move is expected to achieve the desired result with the provision of credible and actionable intelligence specifically from primary sources,” he said. Enenche however urged the local to cooperate with the military by supplying credible and reliable information that would help the troop in their operations. He also urged public not to give false information on the issue of terrorism or banditry in Kaduna. Eneche also denied the allegation that the troops in Baga were indulging in other activities other than fighting the war, stressing that the allegation was unfounded and baseless. According to him, attention of the Defence Headquarters was drawn to the alleged activities of troops in Baga, regarding dealings in livestock and farming. “In line with military procedures, it was investigated and found to be baseless. The full details will be made available at the next briefing,” he said The coordinator further disclosed that Troops of Operation “ HADARIN DAJI” had continued the aggressive clearance operations in the entire North-West zone of the country. According to him, for the past one month we have witnessed downward trend in the activities of armed bandits and cattle rustlers in the general areas of Katsina, Kebbi, Zamfara, Sokoto and adjoining states. “Most of these criminal elements have been decimated. Gradually there is restoration of human activities in the zone. “Farmers have returned to their farms while other economic activities have picked up across the zone. “The troops have continued to dominate the general area with clearance patrols, aggressive fighting patrols and confidence-building patrols. “The High Military Command congratulates the troops for the feat recorded and encourages the good people of the zone to continue to provide credible information to the troops,” he said. Enenche said the military had also continued to sustain the tempo in the fight against terrorism in the North East with attendant successes. He said that within the period under review, there had been reduction in the number of incidences recorded so far from the zone. “That is an evidence of own troops overwhelming superiority over the criminal elements which have drastically degraded the operational capabilities of the BHT/ISWAP elements. “Troops have also sustained the clearance operations, aggressive patrols and Intelligence Surveillance Reconnaissance missions, sustained air offensive operations as well as artillery and aerial bombardments in the theatre of operation,” he said.