Nigeria LNG Limited (NLNG) has donated medical equipment to Edo and Adamawa states as part of its contribution to the N11.4 billion Oil and Gas Industry Collaborative Initiative, spearheaded by Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. Edo and Adamawa states are the fourth and fifth state respectively to benefit from the Company’s COVID-19 donations under the Initiative worth N476 million.Other states that have benefited include Lagos, Bayelsa and Akwa Ibom states. The donations were made by NLNG’s Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Engr. Tony Attah, who was represented by General Manager, External Relations and Sustainable Development, Mrs Eyono Fatayi-Williams. The donations, worth over N234 million, will go to support COVID-19 response by the state governments as well as support the Stella Obasanjo Memorial Hospital,  Benin and the Federal Medical Centre, Yola. The equipment donated in Edo State include electric 4-section profiling hospital beds, alpha active mattresses, portable patient monitors with digital technology, dual-channel IBP, EtCO2 (sidestream) – PHASEIN, thermal array recorders, wall mount for truscope series, volumetric infusion pumps, boxes of infusomat space line standard, infusion syringe pumps, boxes of perfusor line, perfusor syringes (20ml and 50ml) and docking stations for pumps. Also donated by the Company were Fred PA- I, suctioning machine, bedside cabinets, overbed table examination lights, bedhead service system, cubicle curtain, crash cart, patient trolley-LG20, drug trolley, clinical waste bin, sharps bins, drip stands, units of DVT prevention system, DVI garments (calf), and chart board trolleys. In Adamawa State, NLNG donated ventilators, syringe pumps, suction machines, defibrillators, ICU bed, bedside cabinets, mattresses, pillows, hospital cart (resuscitation carts), I -Stat reagent/blood gas/electrolytes analyser, I-Stat cartridge and analyser,infusion pumps, haematology auto-analysers, chemistry analyser and blood/fluid warmer. Other items includeelectronic patient monitors, coagulometer, CRRT machine, blood bank cold centrifuge – 8 buckets, dental chair, Apheresis machine, Dicom printer (OKI) ES8431 DME & UPS, resuscitation bedstethoscope, weighing scales, sphygmomanometers, infrared thermometers, nebulizers, autoclaves, wheelchairs, examination gloves, hand sanitizers, digital BP monitors, delivery beds and respirator surgical masks. In a brief remark, Engr. Attah emphasised the need for Nigerians to stay on course to defeat the virus, adding that NLNG’s contribution to the fight against COVID-19 was in line with its vision of “…helping to build a better Nigeria”. The Managing Director commended the state governments for its persistence and resilience in fighting the pandemic and effectively managing the impact on the lives of Nigerians and the economy. Earlier, NLNG had made donations to the Rivers State Government; Bonny Local Government, the base of its operations; and to residents of Bonny Island with medical supplies and materials worth about N1 billion. The company’s other interventions in Rivers State include training of medical personnel on Bonny Island, donation of food items as palliatives, the upgrade of specific facilities at the Rivers State University Teaching Hospital (RSUTH) and the provision of a 24-bed treatment centre at the Bonny Zonal Hospital for residents of Bonny community.