Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Monday urged residents to obey the directive of President Muhammadu Buhari on restriction of movement, aimed at at stopping the spread of coronavirus pandemic. Sanwo-Olu said this in a statement made available to newsmen in Lagos. Sanwo-Olu-Olu said that no aspect of human life, which includes education, entertainment, sports, aviation, have been spared by the lethal disease. ”Effective from 11pm, March 30, 2020, as announced by President Muhammadu Buhari, movement will be restricted in Lagos State for 14 days. ”Only people rendering essential services, such as health workers, manufacturers and distributors of health equipment, drugs, food and water companies are expected to go out. ”Also allowed to move are workers in telecommunications, petroleum distribution and retailing, as well as power companies and the media, among others whose jobs cannot be handled at home,” he said. Sanwo-Olu, who is the COVID-19 Incident Commander, said that the restriction on movement was a tough decision, but necessary in the battle for life against the COVID-19 pandemic. ”We must co-operate with the authorities as long as this restriction lasts,” the governor said. He said that the restriction would enhance chances of defeating coronavirus, by giving room for medical workers to deal faster with cases. According to him, the restriction will contain the disease, as those infected will be easily identified and isolated. “It will also enhance social distancing and prevent more people from contracting the disease. ”I would also like to address the fears of those who have expressed some security concerns about your places of work and shops during this restriction. ”I have directed the police and other security agents to ensure that there are no security breaches. “They will ensure that criminals do not take advantage of this important measure,” he said. Sanwo-Olu urged the private sector, market leaders and traders to move out inflammable materials such as petrol and kerosene from their offices and shops before the restriction  takes effect. He also advised them to also ensure that all electrical and electronic appliances were switched off  to stave off fire incidents during the 14-day restriction. The governor saluted Lagosians for their endurance since measures to fight the Coronavirus were announced by the government. He said that the Lagos State Government in partnership with the Federal Ministry of Health, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), the World Health Organisation (WHO), UNICEF, among other institutions, would stop at nothing to halt its spread. The Incident Commander said that government would intensify its efforts at disinfecting public places, including parks and highways, as the exercise would extend to rural and riverine areas during the restriction period. On the relief package introduced by the Lagos State Government, Sanwo-Olu said that as he earlier promised, the poor and vulnerable would not be left to their own device. He said that the government had since started the welfare package for this class of people who live on daily earnings and the jobless. According to him, the hitches noticed in the distribution of the food package are being addressed, so as to make the exercise healthier and more dignifying. Sanwo-Olu said that there was no need for residents to panic, even as the number of those infected was rising and the fear of community spreading was being confirmed by the cases that were being handled. ”This is the time to be more focused on our responsibility in this battle. Let us continue to obey the simple rules prescribed by the experts,” he said. The governor outlined the precautionary measures to include: social distancing, remain indoors, washing of hands with soap and water as many times as possible, covering mouths when sneezing or coughing and avoiding any unnecessary gathering.