The Nigerian Government has called on sports clubs, federations and corporate organisations to beam their searchlights on the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) scheme for talents. Mr Sunday Dare, Minister of Youths and Sports, made the call on Saturday at the closing ceremony of the 2019 annual NYSC sports and cultural festival tagged: “Harnessing Youth Potentials for Sports and Cultural Development.” Represented by the Permanent Secretary of the ministry, Mr Gabriel Aduda, the minister said that the festival had revealed that there were talented young potentials within the corps. “The festival was indeed something to write about, we are impressed with the display of skills by corps members, the NYSC sports will contribute to the overall development of the nation, if properly harnessed. “Again, this event has further showcase the relevance of NYSC scheme in the promotion of unity, culture and many more, based on the large crowd of people that converged for the festival. “The spirit of sportsmanship is really commendable among the corps members; I want to, therefore, task our clubs, federations and corporate Nigeria to make use of the unique opportunity in hunting for more talents,” he said. The minister assured that federal government would continue to make available entrepreneurship programmes that would engage the youths in order to make themselves relevant in the society. NYSC Director-General, Shuaibu Ibrahim, while commending the corps members for the great feet, lauded the coordination and discipline exemplified throughout the fiesta. He said that it had further raised the hope for leadership potential for the country. “I am proud to report that in the course of this competitions, these young men and women showed great passion, not only for the purpose of winning laurels, but even more significantly, as a demonstration of their belief in our vision of a more united and prosperous Nigeria. “I thank you for your patriotism and enjoin you to continue to be a source of pride to the nation as you return to your various states of service,” he told the corps members.