The leadership of the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) has appealed to Gov. Simon Lalong  to ensure proper screening of travellers at all points of entry into Plateau, to control the spread of COVID-19. Chairman of NMA in Plateau, Dr Titus Dajel, made the call in Jos, in an interview on Thursday. Dajel said that it was important for the Government to increase vigilance on all individuals coming into Plateau and also called for restriction of movement of people in the state. “We expect that in the next one or two days, there should be some form of medical checks both at the airport and the motor parks. “There is a need for government to take proactive steps towards restricting people coming into the state. “We know that there is a direct flight from Lagos to Jos and we are concerned about that, we are concerned about the state’s proximity to Abuja where we have quite a number of cases. “We know that there is a policy statement on movement restrictions but we are looking forward for the governor to enforce it. There should be a mechanism in place to ensure that. “We have not heard him saying they want to restrict the current flight from Lagos to Jos, we have not heard any arrangement of instituting check points at the entrance of Jos, particularly around Maraban Jama’a,“ he said. Dajel, however, said that NMA commended the efforts of the Plateau government level of preparation in controlling the spread of COVID-19, specially, in most of the hospitals in the state. He said that additional isolation units in the general hospitals in Shendam and Pankshin Local Government Areas and the old site of the Jos University Teaching Hospital was commendable. The governor on Monday, March 23, visited isolation facilities in JUTH, Birmingham University Teaching hospital and the Plateau Specialist Hospital, where he promised immediate provision of eight ventilators and commodities, to control the spread of COVID-19 in the state. The NMA chairman urged plateau government to enforce hygiene in public places, such as motor parks, where hand washing points would be instituted at various car parks with hand sanitisers for people at the entrance to the state to use. “There should be some form of check mechanism to ensure that social distance is observed in vehicles and if enforcing a particular number in these vehicles would be difficult, there should be provision of face masks and hand sanitisers in each car,“ he said. He explained that face mask would control the spread of the virus through sneezing and the use of hand sanitiser would curtail spreading of the virus through hand contact. He note that the association expects the public to adopt the practical steps. “We urge the Nigerian Union of Road Transport Workers to enforce this at the park, labour unions at work places and continuous sensitisation by the media to encourage people to adopt personal and respiratory hygiene and not solely depend on government to take care of their health,‘‘ he said. The secretary of NMA in Plateau, Dr Kumtap Cashmir said a 12 man committee has been set up by the association to compliment government efforts, through ensuring that the public was being enlightened on preventive measures on COVID-19. He said the committee possibly would also provide preventive materials such as hand washing materials in public areas, distribute hand sanitisers in markets places and proffer any suggestion that would assist government in curbing the spread of the virus.