WorldStage NewsOnline—- Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State  has promised to support the ambitions and aspirations of entrepreneurs, innovators and business leaders in the state to create an enabling and viable environment for business. Sanwo-Olu gave the reassurance on Friday night at an Award and Gala Night organised by Ernst and Young (EY) Entrepreneur held at Victoria Island, Lagos. Sanwo-Olu, represented by his Deputy, Dr Obafemi Hamzat, said that entrepreneurs were the key drivers of the state. He acknowledged that Lagos would not have attained being the economic hub of Nigeria and the biggest subnational economy of Africa, if not for entrepreneurs who translated their dreams into reality. “Anyone who has started a business knows that it is not an easy thing to do. “lt also does not get easier and every stage of the growth of a business comes with its own unique challenges and issues. “We must also acknowledge that the environment in which we are can be a challenging one for various reasons. “Despite all the obstacles and challenges, many peeple continue to put in the hard work and the sacrifice to build, grow, expand and innovate. “Therefore, I would like to reassure all the entrepreneurs, innovators, and business leaders that Lagos State Government will continue to do everything within its power to support your ambitions and aspirations,” he said. According to Sanwo-olu, government is investing heavily in infrastructure, especially in the transport sector. “The Federal Government is also supporting us with infrastructure investments in major sectoral areas of transport, power and agriculture to name a few. “We are making it easier for people to get land titles and other necessary documents and to pay state taxes. “We are also automating a lot of our services for greater efliciency and transparency,” he said. The governor stressed that security was also a big priority for its administration, noting that there would not be prosperity without the safety and security of lives and property. “The private sector is an important part of our security efforts, through the Lagos State Security Trust Fund. “Lagos State will continue to faithfully discharge its responsibility to create an enabling environment for your businesses,” he said.