WorldStage NewsOnline—- In a bid to check the spread of Coronavirus in Nigeria, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) says the country requires N1.6 billion emergency funding. Dr Precillia Ibekwe, Deputy Director, Special Duties,NCDC, disclosed this at a news briefing addressed by the Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, an update on the virus on Friday in Abuja. The Federal Government  has so far identified 61 contacts of the index Covid-19 case currently placed under supervision. Ibekwe said  the emergency fund when considered would be used to contain the spread of the virus in the country. She said the fund would particularly be spent on infection prevention and control, surveillance and epidemiology, case management, laboratory diagnosis, logistics, supply as well as risk communication activities. The Special duties director said the fund would also support facilities to help prevent, assess and respond to health events at Point of Entry and to ensure National Health Security in the country. She expressed delight on intervention by the Aliko Dangote Foundation (ADF)  that had  pledged of N200 million to support the government towards curbing the spread of virus in the country. “So far, what Nigeria has gotten were strictly domestic funding. Some of the assistance we get from donors are in form of policy advice, technical assistance, while some of them build on existing instruments and expertise to help the country respond to the virus”, she said. Ibekwe further explained that the NCDC was in talks with local and international partners to get the needed funding, adding  that the money gathered so far was being utilised to scale up responses. She, however, urged the  private sector and other philanthropists to support government’s efforts in strengthening preparedness and responses to COVID-19. “Businesses are only as strong as the communities they are a part. Private organisations need to figure out how to support coronavirus response efforts by providing money, equipment, or expertise. “In an increasingly interconnected world, we are truly all in this together. The work of public health is everyone’s business and it requires all citizens to get involved in the fight”, she said. The first tranche of the N620 million budgeted for emergency response on COVID19 outbreak, has been released by the federal government. The minister also said tall monies approved to NCDC had to go through a lot of process, adding that NCDC had made procurement on credit from its regular suppliers. “They were given materials on credit, but many of them have been settled”, he said.