WorldStage NewsOnline—- As part of efforts to check the spread of Coronavirus in the country, President Muhammadu Buhari has banned all movements in Lagos, FCT and Ogun states  for an initial period of 14 days with effect from 11pm on Monday, 30th March 2020. The president who disclosed this during a media broadcast on Sunday urged citizens in affected states to stay in their homes and postpone plans to travel to or from other states. Buhari said: “All businesses and offices within these locations should be fully closed during this period. “The Governors of Lagos and Ogun States as well as the Minister of the FCT have been notified. Furthermore, heads of security and intelligence agencies have also been briefed. “We will use this containment period to identify, trace and isolate all individuals that have come into contact with confirmed cases. We will ensure the treatment of confirmed cases while restricting further spread to other States. “This order does not apply to hospitals and all related medical establishments as well as organizations in health care related manufacturing and distribution. ” Furthermore, commercial establishments  such as; food processing, distribution and retail companies; petroleum distribution and retail entities; power generation, transmission and distribution companies; and private security companies are also exempted. “Although these establishments are exempted, access will be restricted and monitored. “Workers in telecommunication companies, broadcasters, print and electronic media staff who can prove they are unable to work from home are also exempted. “All seaports in Lagos shall remain operational in accordance with the guidelines I issued earlier. Vehicles and drivers conveying essential cargoes from these Ports to other parts of the country will be screened thoroughly before departure by the Ports Health Authority. “Furthermore, all vehicles conveying food and other essential humanitarian items into these locations from other parts of the country will also be screened thoroughly before they are allowed to enter these restricted areas. “Accordingly, the Hon. Minister of Health is hereby directed to redeploy all Port Health Authority employees previously stationed in the Lagos and Abuja Airports to key roads that serve as entry and exit points to these restricted zones. “Movements of all passenger aircraft, both commercial and private jets, are hereby suspended. Special permits will be issued on a needs basis. “We are fully aware that such measures will cause much hardship and inconvenience to many citizens. But this is a matter of life and death, if we look at the dreadful daily toll of deaths in Italy, France and Spain.” He urged Nigerians to see the restriction as national and patriotic duty to control and contain the spread of this virus. He urged those affected  by the order to put aside personal comfort to safeguard “ourselves and fellow human beings.” The president promised to deploy  relief materials to ease the pains for residents of satellite and commuter towns and communities around Lagos and Abuja whose livelihoods will surely be affected by some of the directives. “Furthermore, although schools are closed, I have instructed the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development to work with State Governments in developing a strategy on how to sustain the school feeding program during this period without compromising our social distancing policies. The Minister will be contacting the affected States and agree on detailed next steps. “Furthermore, I have directed that a three month repayment moratorium for all TraderMoni, MarketMoni and FarmerMoni loans be implemented with immediate effect. “I have also directed that a similar moratorium be given to all Federal Government funded loans issued by the Bank of Industry, Bank of Agriculture and the Nigeria Export Import Bank. “For on-lending facilities using capital from international and multilateral development partners, I have directed our development financial institutions to engage these development partners and negotiate concessions to ease the pains of the borrowers. “For the most vulnerable in our society, I have directed that the conditional cash transfers for the next two months be paid immediately. Our Internally displaced persons will also receive two months of food rations in the coming weeks,” he said. He urged Nigerians to take personal responsibility to support those who are vulnerable within their communities, by helping them with whatever they may need. “As we all pray for the best possible outcome, we shall continue planning for all eventualities. “This is why I directed that all Federal Government Stadia, Pilgrims camps and other facilities be converted to isolation centers and makeshift hospitals,” he said.