WorldStage Newsonline– The Board of Directors of International Breweries Plc. (IB), a member of the world’s largest brewer, Anheuser-Busch InBev, with over 400 beer brands has announced the appointment of Mr. Andrew Whiting as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 8 September, 2020. A notification at the Nigerian Stock Exchange signed by Muyiwa Ayojimi, Company Secretary said, “Mr. Whiting is a lawyer by training and holds Bachelor of Laws and Bachelor of Business Science degrees from the University of Cape Town. “Mr. Whiting’s career began in global law firms Herbert Smith Freehills (London) and Bowmans (Johannesburg) where he practiced corporate law, with a focus on mergers and acquisitions. Mr. Whiting joined SABMiller plc in 2012, which later became part of the AB InBev group, the world’s largest brewer. Andrew has held a number of strategic roles in the company including Global Legal Director – Mergers & Acquisitions, Legal and Corporate Affairs Director – UK & Ireland and currently, Corporate Affairs Director – Africa. “Mr. Whiting has considerable experience working across a number of territories in Europe, Africa, Asia and the Americas, and has a keen interest in developing markets, particularly Africa. “Mr. Whiting held key roles in a number of work streams in the $108 billion takeover of SABMiller by AB InBev (the then largest ever takeover of a British company), including responsibility for leading all legal aspects of the $9 billion auction sale of SABMiller’s Polish, Czech, Slovakian, South Korean, Romanian and Hungarian businesses. “More recently Mr. Whiting led Brexit strategy and the corporate rebrand for AB InBev’s UK and Ireland business and has developed and implemented regional Corporate Affairs strategies for eight AB InBev businesses in Africa (including Nigeria), focusing on regulatory proactivity and corporate reputation. “The Board of International Breweries Plc welcomes Mr. Whiting’s appointment and experience and looks forward to working with him to develop and further shareholder and stakeholder value for the company.” IB Plc. was established in 1971 and was listed on The Nigerian Stock Exchange in 1994. The AB Inbev Company consolidated its majority stakes in Pabod Breweries Limited, Intafact Beverages Limited into its majority ownership of IB Plc in a merger that was concluded in December, 2017. The major National brands are Trophy lager, Trophy stout, Hero lager, Eagle Lager, Betamalt, Grandmalt and the premium brand Budweiser.