WorldStage Newsonline– Sterling Bank Plc said on Monday that it had obtained the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) approval in principle to enable it restructures as a Holding Company. In a notification to the Nigerian Stock Exchange signed by Temitayo Adegoke, Company Secretary said “is currently in the process of meeting the conditions for the final approval.” The Chief Executive Officer of the bank, Mr. Abubakar Suleiman who made the announcement said the bank’s desire to operate as a Holding Company was driven by its plan to spin off its Non-Interest Banking window which became operational in January 2014 into an autonomous entity. “The Bank believes that the proposed structure incorporates efficiencies around operations and financing efforts that will support the individual businesses in reaching full potential through: The statement said the Holding Company “is designed to operate on three major premises – Specialization, Partnership and Digitization. “The Conventional Bank will focus on building skills and using technology to provide solutions in the areas that are critical to development in the country – Health, Education, Agriculture, Renewable Energy, Transportation (HEART). “The Non-Interest Bank will focus on building partnerships that connect individuals and businesses leveraging technology to create business optimization while solving for an individual’s daily financial needs. The overall business will focus on social impact, corporate responsibility and religious compliance in its dealings. “Our Digitization drive will create an enabling environment for both financial institutions to grow while providing services and support to build efficiencies in different ecosystems. “The execution of our plans is fully dependent on our interwoven operating model of Agility, Specialization and Digitization. Essentially, for us to be successful, we require people who are adaptable and knowledgeable running processes that are simple, quick and tech-led to ensure efficiency.”