After weeks of anticipation and suspense, excitement is on the rise as TD Africa, Sub-Saharan Africa’s biggest tech, lifestyle and solutions distributor and one of the companies in the Zinox Group, is set to raise the curtains on the Tech Experience Centre, an ambitious technology project that is widely expected to bridge the gap to cutting-edge technology for millions of Nigerians. This is first time in the history of man and technology that global tech giants such as Cisco, Dell EMC, HP, Microsoft, Samsung, Philips, Bosch, Schneider Electric and Zinox, among others, are coming together to establish their respective experience centres under one roof to create a truly immersive and rich experience of latest technologies in action. The revolutionary Tech Experience Centre, the first of its kind in Africa, is set for launch on Thursday, October 1st 2020, incidentally the occasion of Nigeria’s 60thIndependence Anniversary by 12noon, with the launch streamed live online for the benefit of tech enthusiasts. TheTech Centre is widely expected to boost Nigeria’s relevance in the global technology race and shore up the country’s march to technology independence. For the first time, Nigeria will play host to the latest global technologies including those not normally available in Africa, offering all classes of visitors a first-hand experience of new gadgets, solutions and infrastructure that would have previously required a visit abroad, thereby saving corporate organizations, government establishments and individuals money or scarce foreign exchange expended on these trips. Also raising the excitement for the launch of the Tech Experience Centre is its status as one of the greatest achievements in Nigeria’s technology history and ahuge confidence-booster in the Nigerian economy, despite the challenges faced by the current administration which has shown greater commitment in leveraging technology in building a digital economy for all Nigerians. Meanwhile, the auspicious project cited within the prestigious Yudala Heights on Idowu Martins Street, Victoria Island will be flagged off by the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ali Pantami who is expected in Lagos for the official commissioning of the centre. Also expected to attend the launch are stakeholders from the technology sector, corporate egg-heads and other dignitaries, not exceeding 50 in line with the current guidelines on public gatherings occasioned by the COVID-19 pandemic. Nevertheless, the event will be streamed live to millions of Nigerians via various digital channels. Already, a number of globally-renowned international tech giants, all of whom will be housed within the Tech Experience Centre, will provide real time information, support and expertise to visitors and other prospective customers, eager to be acquainted with the technologies on ground. Quite significantly, the unveiling of the Tech Experience Centre resonates with the recent call by the Chairman, Zinox Group, Leo Stan Ekeh on the Federal Government to declare October 1st 2020 Nigeria’s technology independence day. Ekeh, a serial digital entrepreneur, had based his recommendation on the giant strides recorded by the country in the area of Information and Communication Technology (ICT). ‘‘October 1st 2020 is traditionally Nigeria’s Independence Day. It is a day that commemorates Nigeria’s emergence as a sovereign state. Considering the massive strides recorded so far in our journey to technological emancipation, the Federal Government should strongly consider declaring October 1st Nigeria’s technology independence day,’’ Ekeh had suggested.