WorldStage Newsonline– It is clear that investment in broadband penetration has proven to be a boost for  Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in every country as Nigeria’s broadband penetration has been on a steady increase since the inception of the Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigeria Communications Commission (NCC), Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta in 2015. Nigeria’s broadband penetration hit 42.02% in July 2020 from less than 6% in 2015, due to key policy initiatives embarked upon by the Commission . Prof. Danbatta during a recent  interactive session with the media in Abuja, said that increase in broadband penetration hads enabled the growth of the subscriber base which was 199,307,796 as at June 2020. Teledensity had rose to 104.41 while the percentage contribution to GDP in Q2 2020 was 14.2%. He said, “Our plan for the increased growth of telecom in Nigeria is clear. We will leave no stones unturned; we will not on oars to ensure we achieve our goals. We have our job cut out for us and we will start with broadband because that is the key to touching the lives of every Nigerian. We hope to take broadband penetration to 70 per cent to at least 90 percent of the population by 2025 in line with new target in the Nigerian National Broadband Plan (NBBP), 2020-2025. “We want to continue to protect consumers and ensure they have value for their money. We want to continue to support and fast-track the digital economy drive of the Federal Government of Nigeria and this has led to the creation of a Digital Economy Department in the Commission. “The Commission is placing emphasis on growing the digital economy in collaboration with sister agencies under the Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy (FMoCDE). “We hope to consolidate on spectrum trading to ensure maximum and efficient usage of available frequencies; continuous SIM registration audit to provide security and curtail incidences of banditry, kidnapping and armed robbery; completion and commissioning of Emergency Communications Centres (ECCs) in the remaining states to enhance security and provide relief to citizens in distress.” He assured of the  commitment to the execution of the counterpart Funding Agreements with the Licensed InfraCo to facilitate increase in fibre deployment in the country and ensure, at least one Point of Access (PoA) in each of the 774 Local Government Areas (LGAs) in Nigeria to enhance digital transformation.