WorldStage Newsonline– Nigerian aspirant for the President of Organization of Military Sports in Africa (OSMA), International Military Sports Council (CISM), Brigadier General Maikano Abdullahi has pledged to promote military sports in Africa and ensure that the continent is adequately represented in all CIMS sporting events and world general assemblies. Brigadier General Maikano Abdullahi , who is contesting with Generals from, Algeria, Kenya and Guinea Conakry, with years of sporting experience, was the pioneer Secretary General of OSMA since it was founded in 1994. To emerge the president of OSMA, 51 member Africa countries at the General Assembly must hold and the winner of the OSMA automatically becomes vice president of CISM. The election is expected to take place on 7th October 2020, via video teleconference due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Speaking  at a press briefing in Abuja on Tuesday, Brigadier General Maikano, assured that he will encourage good sporting relationship among 51 countries of OSMA. He said, “CISM is concerned with organizing and coordinating Military Sports in the World. Nigeria has been a member of CISM which has 136 member countries since 1972. “It will interest you to note that our country, Nigeria is also one of the strong pillar of CISM and the founding father of OSMA. The Organization of Military Sports in Africa which was founded in 1994 by Nigerian, Major General Ishola Williams (Rtd), it became fully operational in 2008 with the Headquarters in Yaoundé Cameroun. The First Secretary General of OSMA is my humble self then a Lieutenant Colonel, now Brigadier General. There are 51 African Countries currently as members of OSMA, it is second to COJA in terms of Organizing of Sporting activities in Africa.” On his qualifications, the General disclosed on his vast experience in sport, fitness and training coupled with is participation in both National and International Military and Civil Sporting activities which enhanced his nomination for this post. He said, “I am a fellow member of National Association of Physical and Health Education Recreation Sports and Dance (NAPHER-SD). I have won several National and International Awards in Cameroun, CISM Headquarters Belgium, Burkina Faso, Niger and Republic of Guinea to mention but few. “As a Senior Officer in Defence Headquarters Abuja and Deputy Director Sports, if given the mandate, I will project the good image of Nigeria better in both CISM and OSMA, promote Military Sports in Nigeria and Africa. I will also ensure that our Continent is adequately represented in all CISM sporting events and World General Assemblies and it will also give me the opportunity to promote sports and encourage good sporting relationship among the 51 African Countries.” He also expressed appreciation to the Chief of Defence Staff, General Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin for his wonderful achievement in sports and physical training since 2015 to date. He highlighted some of the achievement as “Update and regular payment of Membership Annual dues of CISM, OSMA and Walo from 2015 every year to date 2020; Renovation of all our sporting facilities in Mogadishu Cantonment; Creation of Barracks Male and Female Youth Sports Championship that includes Basketball, Badminton, Handball, Football, Chess and Rugby  Annually, this is just in CDS love for the barracks teaming youth just to engage them in a meaningful sporting activities with a view to hunting talent and keeping them meaningfully busy. “Participation of Nigerian Armed Forces Teams in international sporting activities such as, World Military Games in Wuhan China in 2019, World Military Skills Competition in South Africa 2018 and 2019, African Basketball Championship in Congo Brazzaville in 2017, West African Boxing Competition in Guinea Conakry 2018; Sponsoring of Armed Forces and Security Agencies Half Marathon Championship from 2017 – date just to mention but few. “I would also once again use this medium to thank the Chief of Defence Staff, General Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin and the Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Tukur Yusuf Buratai for nominating me to vie for the Post of OSMA President and CISM Vice President for Africa.”