WorldStage Newsonline–Active mobile subscribers in Nigeria increased from 184 million in December 2019 to 199.3 million in May 2020, a 8.32% growth in five months, according to the Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigeria Communications Commission (NCC), Prof Umar Garba Danbatta in his presentation during the unveiling of the winners of the Hackathon innovative challenge and adaptable solutions to COVID-19 at the NCC headquarters  in Abuja. He noted that internet subscription within the same period grew from 126 million subscribers to 147.1 million, while broadband subscription has improved from 72 Million to 80.2 million, achieving a 42.02% penetration in the country. Danbatta said, “These may have given impetus to the possibility of holding virtual meetings and conferences on video technologies that are now providing social distancing solutions. “So, in whichever way we look at it, telecommunications has much more greater role to play than many other sectors of economy and the society. Therefore, the challenge to us to find a way to accentuate our local content solution is a blessing. We are pleased with the responses that we received on this initiative. “The Hackathon is expected to throw up innovative and adaptable solutions that will address the present and future impacts of Pandemics and Epidemic diseases in Nigeria focusing on five (5) thematic areas namely Health, Community, Productivity, Economy and Education. “Today, we hope to unveil the three (3) winning adaptable digital solutions from Startups or Digital SME’s who participated in this competition, aimed at  producing  homegrown solutions to the global pandemic for local, national or global adoption. “We had, in inviting submissions for this innovative digital solution to Covid-19 pandemic, sought novel ideas or solution to address the needs of health workers and other frontline health professionals including individuals in isolation centres, or provide help for relevant agencies involved in tracking and tracing the spread of the virus as well as support or facilitation of other preventive measures. “We will all witness what digital solutions that today’s winners are going to bring to the table.  Each of the Startups or tech-hubs with promising innovative digital solutions against the pandemic will receive a grant of N3M (Three Million Naira Only).”