WorldStage NewsOnline—- The Armed Forces of Nigeria, has said it has provides additional isolation treatment centre at Nigerian Navy Reference Hospital, Navy Town, Ojo in Lagos and also commenced the training of 80 medical personnel to manage the Covid-19 cases. The provision of an additional isolation treatment centre now brings the number of centres to 18 in the country. The Coordinator, Defense Media Operation, Major General John Enenche who disclosed this in a statement on Friday in Abuja, reaffirmed its committment to the Presidential directives on COVID-19. He said “Equally, the training of 80 medical personnel of the Armed Forces of Nigeria to manage COVID-19 cases has since commenced. They are being trained in batches and would soon be deployed to the various units where they would serve. In addition, the recalling of retired Armed Forces medical personnel is in progress. ” I wish to also inform you that a strategic level preparation by the Armed Forces of Nigeria in support of COVID-19 effort by the Federal Government of Nigeria is on. “Currently, Nigerian Air Force is operating at full capacity, its Liquefied Oxygen (LOX) Plant at the 103 Strike Group (103 STG) at the Nigerian Air Force Base, Yola. The plant is on 24 hours operation to ensure uninterrupted production of pure Liquefied Oxygen. The Liquefied Oxygen is being gasified and will be stored in cylinders for immediate supply to isolation centres and designated hospitals as will be directed. On several videos trending online showing uniformed men, he said “the Defence Headquarters wishes to once again clarify that the viral videos trending online showing men in uniform are not genuine. The general public should please disregard these videos and consider it as actions of mischief makers who intend to tarnish the good image, integrity and sterling achievements of the Armed Forces of Nigeria.” Enenche, however on behalf of the High Command of the Armed Forces of Nigeria commended the general public for their understanding and compliance with the Presidential Directives in respect to the lockdown. “It should be understood that the directives are in the best interest of the Nigerian populace, in order to prevent the spread of the dreaded COVID-19 pandemic,” he said.