WorldStage Newsonline– The National Leader of the All Progressive Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has confirmed that his Chief Security Officer, Alhaji Lateef Raheem who was reported to have died recently actually lost the battle to COVID- 19. In a statement by his media team, following the death of the aide, as a precautionary measure, the former Lagos State Governor, his wife, Senator Oluremi Tinubu, and all their aides took COVID-19  tests Saturday, April 25 with the results for both Asiwaju and Senator TInubu coming as negative. However, the results of one aide were positive while the rest of the staff was negative. The one staff member was said to have been isolated in accordance with NCDC guidelines. “Further contact tracing and COVID-19 tests are being conducted by the NCDC with regard to the relatives and possible contacts of that staff member,” the statement said. The former governor advised that Covid-19 is a real and present threat while “those of us who discount it or claim it is a fabrication do a grave and dangerous disservice to the public well-being. “Likewise, those who stigmatise people who may have been stricken by the virus also do a disservice by casting blame on the innocent and discouraging people from taking the COVID test. “We cannot defeat this health menace through ignorance or by shaming one another. We can only beat it through transparency, knowledge and compassion.  This, we have learned first-hand.” Asiwaju stressed that openness and transparency must be observed “if we are to defeat this disease. “There is no house immune to its entry. Contracting the virus should not bring social or moral stigma any more than contracting malaria or a common cold. “We cannot overcome this challenge by acting like it does not exist or by trying to conceal that someone may have it due to social shame. The culture of denial is counterproductive and will do great harm in our current situation. “ Asiwaju asked that people should not be afraid to be tested if they any symptoms or if they believe they may have come in contact with someone who had been infected. “We must do all we can to contain the spread of the virus and to well treat those of us who have been hit by it,” he said. “As you go about your day, we know you must find daily sustenance. Yet, please continue to do all you can to maintain social distance and to take all other public health measures to protect yourself and others. In this way, we all may contribute to halt the spread of this dangerous virus.”