The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has commended its National Chairman,  Adams Oshiomhole, for strengthening  democratic structures and participatory politics with utmost fidelity in the country. The ruling party said this in a statement issued in Abuja on Friday by Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, its National Publicity Secretary, while celebrating with Oshiomhole on his 68th birthday. “The National Working Committee (NWC), leaders, members and supporters of APC celebrate with our indefatigable National Chairman, Comrade Adams Aliyu Oshiomhole, CON, on his 68th birthday. “On this special day, we salute our Comrade Chairman,  who in his entire public service to this great country, has demonstrated doggedness, steadfastness and pro-masses disposition in his actions and utterances.” The party’s spokesman said that Oshiomhole was working assiduously with other party members to ensure the renewal of our presidential mandate in the 2019 elections. According to him,  he is also doing all it takes to strengthen democratic structures and participatory politics with utmost fidelity to the best practices and our party’s constitution. “It is on record how the National Chairman effectively mobilised leaders, members and apparatus of our great party to ensure the emergence of the current leadership of the National Assembly. “The feat is a development which, in no small measures, has smoothened the engagement between the executive and legislative arms and enhance governance processes,” Issa-Onilu said. He added that Oshiomhole, as former National President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), fought and defended the interests of Nigerian workers and the masses with an uncommon commitment. “In his services to the people of Edo State as governor, Comrade Oshiomhole, once again, demonstrated that public service can only be meaningful if it is deployed for the benefit of the people. “The party acknowledges with pride the energy and commitment with which Comrade Oshiomhole has been propagating the mantra of “One Man, One Vote”, even before joining party politics.