The Nigerian Government on Monday assured that all the rice distributed to states were certified fit for human consumption. The Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Social Development and Disaster Management, Hajiya Sadiya Farouq, gave the assurance on Monday in Abuja. She said that the rice was accessed by the National Agency for Food Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) before delivering them to the states. Farouq was reacting to accusation by Gov. Seyi Makinde  of Oto State that the rice was contaminated. The minister spoke at the daily briefing by the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19. Farouq said that the rice was distributed to the states as handed over to the ministry by the Nigerian Customs Service, adding that NAFDAC also accessed the edibility of the rice. According to her, “we all know if we keep rice or grain it is bound to change colour but that does not mean it is unfit for human consumption”. She refuted claims that the rice given to the Oyo State Government by the federal government as palliative had expired, adding that such claimed is baseless. The minister also said that it was impossible for anybody to divert money meant for the Npower beneficiaries, adding that such cannot happen under the current IPPIS. She said that though the issue relating to her office had always been about Npower, but added that it is practically impossible for either the executive or any other person to divert their money for any other purpose. “We know it is practically impossible to divert fund that has been appropriated. I don’t know how such can be done without facing the backlash,” she said. On the distribution of palliative, the minister said that there were lay down structures which the ministry was following for distribution, adding that the ministry is working with the state governments in the distribution of palliatives. Farouq also said that the ministry was working with Non-Governmental Organisation (NGOs), Red Cross and Civil Society Organisations in monitoring and evaluation of COVID-19.