The media sub-committee of the Oyo State Task Force Committee on Covid-19, on Wednesday, kickstarted another round of sensitisation drive among transport unions including Park Managers, Quarry Tipper Drivers, and commercial motorcycle riders under the aegis of the Amalgamated Commercial Motorcycles and Tricycles Owners, Repairers and Riders Association of Nigeria (ACOMORAN). The state’s Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism, Dr. Wasiu Olatubosun, who addressed the transporters from all the 33 Local Government Areas and 35 Local Council Development Areas said that the move was to help the state curtail the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic in their various parks and in the state. The commissioner, according to a statement issued by the Chief Press Secretary to Governor Seyi Makinde, who also doubles as a member of the Task Force, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, also told the gathering which was composed of ten participants at an instance in line with the social distancing directives, said that the state was concerned about the adherence of the operators of the parks to the Covid-19 medical protocols. He said that the enlightenment was targeted at the Park Managers, Quarry Tippers Drivers and the motorcycle riders because of the huge number of persons they come in contact with daily. “This is the continuation of our community engagement and we believe that the operators of transport system are very key to our campaign just like market leaders and artisans are very key,” the commissioner said. He further said: “We have met with Bus,  Cab and Tippers, Motor Cyclist Operators, who are in charge of the transportation in the state. We don’t want anybody to carry more than one passenger on okada, while Marwa and Taxi should carry one passenger on the front seat and two at the back. “For us to get this done we need them to key in to our campaign and we expected them to go back and enlighten, educate their colleagues.” Speaking during the sensitisation, the Chairman, Park Managers Disciplinary Committee, Alhaji Mukaila Lamidi, promised the government that his members would abide by the laid down protocols on how to curtail the spread of the Coronavirus. He said: “I can tell you that we appreciate the efforts of the government of Oyo State under the leadership of Governor Makinde concerning this. “We can also see that everybody is supporting him. So, we pray that God Almighty will continue to support him. “As transport workers, we have been sensitised on how to take to precautions so that we and our family members would not be part of those who will contract the virus. “We were told to always use our face masks wherever we go and we should not carry passengers who fail to use their face masks. Any of us who disobey the rule will pay fine or be arrested. “The warnings they gave us do not only apply to bus drivers but also to commercial motorcycle owners and tricyclists in the state. Those who drive tricycles must not carry more than three passengers and the okada riders must carry just one passenger. Also, taxi drivers must, henceforth, carry one passenger at the front and two at the back. Similarly, bus drivers carrying four passengers on a seat must now carry only two.”