WorldStage NewsOnline— The Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari has announced extension of lockdown in Lagos, FCT and Ogun for another 14 days, effective from 11:59 pm on Monday, 13th of April, 2020. The president who started this during  a national broadcast said it was “a difficult decision to take, but I am convinced that this is the right decision. The evidence is clear.” “Our approach to the virus remains in 2 steps – First, to protect the lives of our fellow Nigerians and residents living here and second, to preserve the livelihoods of workers and business owners. “With this in mind and having carefully considered the briefings and Report from the Presidential Task Force and the various options offered, it has become necessary to extend the current restriction of movement in Lagos and Ogun States as well as the FCT for another 14 days effective from 11:59 pm on Monday, 13th of April, 2020. I am therefore once again asking you all to work with Government in this fight. “This is not a joke. It is a matter of life and death. Mosques in Makkah and Madina have been closed. The Pope celebrated Mass on an empty St. Peter’s Square. The famous Notre Dame cathedral in Paris held Easter Mass with less than 10 people. India, Italy and France are in complete lockdown. Other countries are in the process of following suit. We cannot be lax.  44.       I will therefore take this opportunity to urge you all to notify the relevant authorities if you or your loved ones develop any symptoms. I will also ask our health care professionals to redouble their efforts to identify all suspected cases, bring them into care and prevent transmission to others. Buhari said he was fully aware of the great difficulties experienced especially by those who earn a daily wage such as traders, day-workers, artisans and manual workers. “For this group, their sustenance depends on their ability to go out. Their livelihoods depend on them mingling with others and about seeking work. But despite these realities we must not change the restrictions. ” In the past two weeks, we announced palliative measures such as food distribution, cash transfers and loans repayment waivers to ease the pains of our restrictive policies during this difficult time. These palliatives will be sustained,” he said. He said he has directed that the current social register be expanded from 2.6 million households to 3.6 million households in the next two weeks. “This means we will support an additional one million homes with our social investment programs. A technical committee is working on this and will submit a report to me by the end of this week. “The Security Agencies have risen to the challenges posed by this unprecedented situation with gallantry and I commend them. I urge them to continue to maintain utmost vigilance, firmness as well as restraint in enforcing the restriction orders while not neglecting statutory security responsibilities. “The response of our State Governors has been particularly impressive, especially in aligning their policies and actions to those of the Federal Government. “In the coming weeks, I want to assure you that the Federal Government, through the Presidential Task Force, will do whatever it takes to support you in this very difficult period. I have no doubt that, by working together and carefully following the rules, we shall get over this pandemic,” he said. 