The Lagos State Government says the Ramadan edition of the Emergency Neighbourhood Food Markets for residents will hold on Wednesday,  April 22, 2020. The Emergency Neighbourhood Food Markets for residents are  essentially to address the problem associated with the lockdown and promotion of social distancing in the fight against the spread of COVID-19 The Lagos State Commissioner for Agriculture, Mr Gbolahan Lawal, who made the disclosure  on Monday said that  the neighbourhood food markets would hold in 27 selected public schools within 14 local government areas of the state. According to him, the markets are set up to provide Lagosians access to food supplies during the COVID-19 lockdown to prevent panic buying in line with the state governor’s directives  to close all markets and stores trading in non-essential commodities. He said that the makeshift markets within the neighbourhoods were platforms for families that do not have the capacity to buy food stuffs in bulk to have access to a market during the current lockdown in the state. The commissioner said  that the markets would enable shoppers to buy produce and other everyday needs including  beverages, vegetables, fish, poultry products, bread and other essential needs at competitive, affordable and farm gate prices. According to him, the selected schools within which the markets are situated include the  St Judes Primary School, Ilasamaja,  Ilupeju Primary School, Town Planning Way, Illupeju and Papa Ajao Primary School, all in Mushin Local Government. “Others are the Local Government Primary School, Idimu, Meiran Community Primary School, Meiran in the Alimosho Local Government area, Sijuade Primary School, Ijesatedo,  Lagos Progressive Primary School, Mbah Street, Surulere,  Obele Secondary School, Lawanson and Aguda Grammar School, Aguda, Surulere local government. “Also included are the Ikeja Primary School, Opebi Primary School, Ikeja,  United Christian Primary School, Marine Beach,  Ijora Oloye Primary School, Ire Akari Nursery and Primary School II, Iganmu all in the Apapa Local Government Area of the State. “St Jude Primary School, Ebute Meta,  Fagba Junior Grammar School, Iju, Stadium Junior Grammar School, Ifako, Ikota Primary School, Lekki-Epe Expressway, Ikota, St George’s Primary School, Ikoyi, Araromi Baptist School, Beckley Road, Lagos Island. “Others are St Emmanuel Primary School, Ogudu, Ajao Estate School, Anthony, Sam Ethnan Airforce Base, Ikeja and Ejigbo Model Primary School, Ejigbo,” he said. Lawal said  that other schools included the  St Theresa Roman Catholic Primary School, Epe; Awolowo Way, Oke Oyinbo, Epe, Anglican Primary School, Aradagun/Mosafejo Aworo/Ajido Road, Badagry and Government Technical College, Awolowo Way, Oke Ota-Ona, Ikorodu. The commissioner urged Muslims to use the opportunity of this year’s Ramadan for inner reflection, self-discipline and self-improvement by offering prayers to God for the end of the current COVID-19 pandemic in Lagos State in particular and the world in general.