Residents of Isolo in Lagos State, on Tuesday expressed dissatisfaction with  the extension of the Federal Government’s lockdown of the state, claimimg that it had increased hunger and insecurity. The residents, who spoke on the issue said that although the extension was well-intended,  it had not been easy for many Lagos residents. President Muhammadu Buhari had in a national broadcast on Monday night announced extension of lockdown of Abuja,  Lagos and Ogun states for another 14 days in an effort to reduce the spread of coronavirus. The president had earlier ordered lockdown of the states for an initial 14 days that started on March 30. The residents said that activities of robbers had increased in their neighbourhoods, making them to sleep with only one eye closed. They added that they had slipped into hunger because of closure of their businesses. A welder, Mr Tony Philip, said that the aim of  the lockdown was laudable but insecurity and hunger was making it unattractive. He urged that security agents should do more to safeguard lives and property. “The government should ensure that the palliatives we heard it is sharing reach us because I have not seen anyone who received the money  being shared by the government. “The president said he would extend the palliatives to  additional one million homes.  Who are they? why am I not included?” he asked. The welder blamed recent robberies  in neighbourhoods on hunger resulting from the lockdown. “The insecurity we are experiencing in our neighbourhood this period is as a result of hunger. “Government should put more measures in place to cushion the effects of the lockdown,” Philip said. A builder, Mr Sunday Akayaya, said that he was not financially prepared for the initial lockdown and, therefore,  suffered hunger. “Now, it has been extended by two weeks. How will my family survive? “I make my money on daily basis; now everything is standstill – no work, no money. “Government should come to our aid,” he urged. Another resident, Mr Brown Asuqwo, said that crime had increased due to the lockdown. “We cannot sleep with our eyes closed;  residents now keep watch at night because everybody is scared of being robbed,” Asuqwo said. He urged  security operatives to increase  night patrols to scare robbers. Asuqwo, also said that it had been difficult for him to have two square meals daily since the lockdown started.