With the Federal Government declaring on Monday an extension of the two-week lockdown in Lagos, Abuja and Ogun state coupled with the ongoing restrictions in other states, composite e-commerce giant Konga has rolled out a special deal on laptops, tablets and other devices to enable stay-at-home Nigerians carry on e-learning and virtual work. The discount sales commence on Wednesday, April 15, 2020. The massive discount is on a highly limited number of devices which Konga is putting up for sale at heavily discounted prices to support the efforts of the Federal and State governments in providing succour to Nigerians during these challenging times. The devices – including a variety of laptops/netbooks, PCs, Ultrabooks, Macbooks, All-in-ones, tablets, notepads by HP, Dell, Lenovo, Zinox, etc.– all sourced directly from the Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) are available exclusively on the e-commerce giant’s online platform at Konga.com; with the company committing to swift deliveries to the doorsteps of interested shoppers. However, Konga has reiterated that the devices are limited in quantity and, as such, will be sold off on first-come, first-served basis. This was confirmed by Vice President, Konga Retail, Kalu Johnson. ‘‘The laptops, PCs, tablets and other devices are going at extremely reduced prices unmatched anywhere in the market. Indeed, we are using this to support the efforts of the government in mitigating the harsh impacts of the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown on Nigerians. Specifically, the management of Konga is using these highly discounted offers and deals to assist all categories of Nigerians including entrepreneurs, business owners, schools/educational institutions and students carry on their enterprise/business and learning activities from the comfort of their homes, especially in the light of current realities. ‘‘Prior to the extension of the lockdown in most states of the Federation, we have received significant interest from Nigerians who are keen to turn to e-learning and virtual work during the period of the ongoing lockdown and as Nigeria continues to battle to control the ravaging COVID-19 pandemic,’’ he said. Nigeria is currently battling to curb the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic as confirmed cases rise across the country. In view of the foregoing, President Muhammadu Buhari had announced a two-week extension of the lockdown in Lagos, Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and Ogun State in a televised nationwide broadcast on Monday, April 13, 2020.