Foremost composite e-commerce giant, Konga has launched a partnership with renowned Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG) manufacturer, Unilever which will see the wide range of products on the brand’s stable placed at the reach of shoppers across the country. Indeed, Unilever is keen to leverage Konga’s massiveregional warehousing infrastructure, advanced logistics capabilities and unmatched reach, through its thriving online platform which caters to a growing clientele of online shoppers in search of genuine products at the best prices available in the market. Further increasing the appeal of Konga as a premium vehicle suited to Unilever’s ambition of reaching new and potential customers is the e-commerce giant’s network of physical stores widely dispersed in the metropolises and various nooks and crannies across Nigeria’s vast landscape and its Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) licensed payment wallet, KongaPay; factors that have made it the toast of a number of top global brands looking to make an in-road into Africa’s biggest market via e-commerce. In addition, shoppers in Nigeria are in for a treat as Konga has rolled out free delivery for shoppers on the various product range in the Unilever stable. These include products such as Royco seasoning package, Lipton Yellow Label Tea, Close-up Red Hot and Herbal lines, Sunlight detergent, Lifebuoy, Lux, Pepsodent, Vaseline and Shea Moisture, among others.Equally important, the products can be accessed online on the Konga platform at: https://www.konga.com/merchant/unilver-online-store Also set to excite shoppers is the fact that Konga is throwing in free bars of Lifebuoy soap on all orders placed on Unilever products in the Konga warehouse. In a joint statement signed by Konga and Unilever, Dave Omoregie, Vice President, e-Commerce at Konga, disclosed that the partnership is one that will enrich the delightful offerings available to Nigerians on the Konga platform. ‘‘For us at Konga, it was an easy decision signing off on this partnership with Unilever. Indeed, the Unilever brand is one whose wide product range appeals to Nigerians of all classes and status. Therefore, we are delighted to add these products to our growing bouquet of delightful offerings available to shoppers. ‘‘Most importantly, we understand the difficulties being borne by Nigerians especially with the lockdown occasioned by the COVID-19 crisis. Consequently, we are offering Nigerians the opportunity of stocking up on these essential products and household items at zero delivery cost. All you have to do is place your orders and enjoy free delivery as we deliver right to your doorsteps. ‘‘The addition of the Unilever brand to the growing portfolio of genuine products available to shoppers on the Konga platform and the offer of free delivery is further proof of our commitment to continually push the boundaries in meeting and exceeding the expectations of our customers. We will continue to update our inventory with more of the excellent new additions to the Unilever product range as they are rolled out,’’ he disclosed.