The leadership of ECOWAS Heads of State and Government will discuss the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and its impact on the West African sub-region when they meet via a virtual Extraordinary Session on April 23. The Media and Communications Department of the ECOWAS Commission disclosed this in a statement released in Abuja on Wednesday. According to the commission, ECOWAS has provided financial support to member countries for the purchase of medial equipment and other essential supplies to strengthen the fight against COVID-19. It stated that preceding the Extraordinary Summit, the ministers in charge of finance and the governors of the various national central banks in the sub-region would also hold a virtual Extraordinary Session on April 22. It added that the governors of the central banks would also be discussing on the COVID-19 situation and the financial impact on the sub-region’s economies. “To address the COVID-19 situation in the sub-region, ECOWAS had immediately made available financial support. “In addition to assistance from international partners, for the purchase of medical supplies and equipment essential for the fight against the pandemic. “As of April 20, 2020, according to the West African Health Organisation (WAHO) data, the 15 member states have recorded 5,474 confirmed cases, 1,567 recoveries, 140 deaths, and 3,767 active cases. “ECOWAS reaffirms its solidarity with member states and welcomes all the measures already taken to contain the spread of the pandemic and care for the sick,” the commission said. The draft agenda of the summits stated that the meeting would commence at 10 a.m with an opening statement by Niger’s Republic President, Issoufou Mahamadou who is also Chairman of the Authority. Mr Jean-Claude Brou, President of the ECOWAS Commission is expected to brief the Authority of Heads of State and Government on the impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic on the sub-region. There will also be statements by Chairperson of the African Union, Moussa Mahamat and Dr Mohammed Ibn Chambas, Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General for West Africa and Sahel