WorldStage Newsonline– Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu and the All Progressives Congress National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu have condoled with President Muhammadu Buhari on the death of his former Chief of Staff, Mallam Abba Kyari, who passed on in the early hours of Saturday. Sanwo-Olu, in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Gboyega Akosile described the death of Mallam Abba Kyari as shocking, painful and a monumental loss to the nation, the people and government of Maiduguri and the Kyari family. Sanwo-Olu said: ‘‘I received the sad news of the death of Mallam Abba Kyari, an astute public servant with a heavy heart. Mallam Kyari was a dedicated Nigerian, a deeply committed and patriotic citizen, who contributed remarkably to the smooth and successful running of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration.’’ The Governor added that Kyari was a ‘‘conscientious, competent, cerebral and outstanding administrator whose life traversed the fields of law, journalism, banking and politics.’’ Sanwo-Olu described the death of Mallam Kyari as a great loss to Nigeria, happening at a time the country is desirous of more deeply patriotic individuals to contribute selflessly towards the development of the country. The Governor urged President Buhari to take solace in the quality of life lived by Mallam Kyari and his exemplary contribution to the current administration. He said: “as human beings, the death of a close ally will be painful and devastating, but we must always look back at the beautiful moments one shared with the deceased as well as the legacies left behind by such individual. Therefore, Mr. President should find comfort in the good works done by the late Kyari” Sanwo-Olu said the country and the immediate community of the deceased would remember him for many years to come. Sanwo-Olu prayed to Almighty God to grant the soul of late Abba Kyari eternal rest and comfort the families he left behind the fortitude. “Surely, the Almighty will be with them and grant them the grace to bear the irreplaceable loss”, he concluded. ABBA KYARI’S DEATH SHOULD NOT BE IN VAIN – TINUBU Tinubu in his condolence message is contained in a statement signed by him and released by his Media Office on Saturday in Lagos described  Kyari, as a man of accomplishment whose death due to the raging coronavirus pandemic should not be in vain. He said although the nation is made sad and mourning, we must also use his demise and those of others fallen by the virus to strengthen our resolve in fighting the pandemic. Asiwaju Tinubu said: “I’m deeply saddened by the news of the passing of Malam Abba Kyari, Chief of Staff to the President. He was an extremely able, loyal and talented man who dedicated his considerable skills to the success of the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari. “Whatever someone will try to say about Mallam Kyari, the words will prove insufficient. His influence in government and throughout the land was substantial and profound. He will surely be missed.  My deepest condolences go to President Buhari, the people of NIgeria and especially the family of Mallam kyari over this tragic loss. May Almighty Allah comfort the president and the Kyari family at this difficult moment. “This death came at a time the government is working assiduously to prevent the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. We must not allow the passing away of Mallam Kyari and the other Nigerians who have lost their lives to this terrible disease to be in vain.  Although we are today made sad, we must also use this moment to strengthen our resolve in fighting the pandemic. “Let us rededicate ourselves to obeying the public health measures such as physical distancing so that we may defeat the contagion and not fall to it. While we must maintain spatial distance from one another we must yet come closer in the spirit of brotherly compassion and national purpose in order to defeat the threat we now face. “Mallam Kyari was a man of accomplishment. We know not why Almighty Allah has taken him at this time. Allah’s will is supreme and there is no questioning it. Yet we must learn from Mallam Kyari’s passing. We must honor the departed by doing all we can to defeat the virus so that we safeguard the health of the nation that Mallam Kyari loved so deeply. . “To the family of Mallam Kyari, may Almighty Allah support and comfort them during this painful moment. My condolences are also with Governor Babagana Zulum, the government and people of Borno State over the loss of their extraordinary son. “I pray that Allah Subuhana Watahalah grant the soul of our beloved Mallam Kyari eternal rest and admit him to Aljana Firdaus.”