WorldStage Newsonline– Kreateng Africa, a digital innovation company has been launched in Lagos, Nigeria to assist businesses in achieving exponential growth and operational efficiency through enterprise software solutions, creative design and branding, digital marketing and co-working space. Mr Adedayo Okunfolami, the CEO of Kreateng Africa said the company is in the business of delivering the best digital experience for everyone whether it is web or mobile application development, graphics design or any digital marketing solution. “We create unique experiences that transforms companies and inspires people. We breathe life into your business and brand,” he said. On how the company is positioned to deliver the services, he said through the holistic understanding of their clients, Kreateng are able to craft and design a brand identity that will give them a greater yield on your investment. “Kreateng is a partner in building brands beginning from the development of strategies to the execution of campaigns,” Okunfolami said. “Our experienced and professional team provide the tools and skills needed to get marketing done the proper way. “We invest and leverage on technology and digital solutions to help our clients unleash new potentials across their respective organizations. “We provide unique workstation services which include state-of-the-earth work place design, top notch internet service and standard security. Our membership plans range from pay-as you- go to prepaid plans in other to satisfy the different price ranges of our client.” On what is unique about Kreateng, Okunfolami said it is not just about the software and creative design business, but that it cared about customers and their clients, working as a family while developing and inspiring each other. While promising superb digital experiences, he said, “We believe that making available every necessary digital software and technological solutions will enable our clients to achieve more. “Kreateng is professionally overseen by experts who have worked in different industries and now stepped out to become business owners, entrepreneurs and positive minded individuals. Our uniqueness is no other than our large pool and availability of professionals, industry expertise, and the understanding of what to do in order to grow and succeed. “Kreateng team is passionate about delivering excellence to assisting clients reach new heights. We are committed to integrity and transparency. We portray a strong commitment to have a sustainable.”