The leadership of ECOWAS has promised to focus on the implementation of regional integration programmes and monetary policies in 2020. Dr Aderemi Ajibewa, the commission’s Director of Political Affairs said this in an interview  on Friday in Abuja. He noted that focus on the implementation of the regional integration programmes and policies were in furtherance of the directives of the Authority of ECOWAS Heads of State and governments. Ajibewa said that the authority had at its 56th Ordinary Session held in Abuja on Dec. 21, instructed the commission to implement the policies. According to him, the attention will be on the implementation of sociopolitical, economic, monetary, and humanitarian policies as well as programmes aimed at promoting the free movement of goods and services through the African Continental Free Trade Area (AFCFTA), energy and infrastructure, among others. “With respect to what ECOWAS will be doing in 2020, the Communiqué of Dec. 21 in Abuja has been given a backing to that. “So, it can be looked at from the sociopolitical, economic, monetary as well as the humanitarian dimension. “On the respect to the issue of the implementation of the regional integration programmes, these would be implemented in 2020 against the backdrop that the macroeconomic environment in member states would be structured along the transformation of their economies, to facilitate achievements of a monetary union by 2020. “Also, on the creation of the monetary union, it also seem that efforts have been made by Member states in 2020, as directed by the heads of state,” Ajibewa said. He said that the proposed symbol of ECOWAS on the single currency, Eco, would be adopted and not only that, it would also be seen to align with the Central Bank of West Africa. “So, regarding the single currency, we have all listened to the various issues going on UEOMA, Authority of Heads of State and Government, and within the ECOWAS , and  both organisations would work together to facilitate its integration into the ECOWAS Monetary zone, that is ECO. “With respect to the free movement of goods and services, ECOWAS has expressed in the communiqué that the efforts on the issue of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AFCFTA) would be resolved. “Some areas are still lingering over there, and that would be resolved so that a single common offer could be sent to the African Union Commission,” Ajibewa said. The director said that with respect to other areas, ECOWAS had made a steady progress on the issue of ECOWAS Service Policy Review. He noted that this has also helped in arriving at a common position on the schedule of specific commitments in this area, and this would be further intensified in 2020. With respect to the energy and infrastructural development,  Ajibewa said that ECOWAS  would also intensify its commitments with member states in 2020.