The U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) has launched an $8-million ‘Water for Agriculture Activity’ for the benefit of crop and livestock farmers in crisis-ridden northeast Nigeria. Specifically, the project is aimed at providing adequate and sustainable water for the farmers. The Mission Director, USAID, Mr Stephen Haykin said at the official launch of the project in Abuja on Wednesday that the scheme was awarded in July 2019 and would last for the next three years – from July 2019 to July 2022 in Adamawa, Borno, and Yobe states. According to him, the project which will be implemented by Catholic Relief Services (CRS) will assist some of the region’s most vulnerable communities.
“It will expand water access for both agriculture and livestock, which will, in turn, increase income generation for smallholder farmers and help them recover from the economic destruction wrought by the insurgencies. “Water scarcity is a big challenge in the Northeast basin. The impact of climate change is driving decreasing and uncertain rainfall patterns. “This scarcity, combined with limited irrigation infrastructure, inadequate waters, agriculture management and conflict around agricultural production have all constrained livelihoods,” he said. He said that the activity would improve livelihood opportunities by increasing the number of water access points and improving the capacity of local groups, communities, and local authorities to govern and manage water infrastructure and resources. He noted that new production technologies, processing and post-harvest management techniques would be introduced in the course of the project. Haykin said that access to inputs and services for herders and farmers would be increased, adding that these steps would ensure they have a reliable market place for their products. The mission director said that the Government of Nigeria was making progress towards enhanced rural livelihoods in the region. Similarly, the Deputy Country Representative, CRS, Mr Dane Fredenburg said that the activity would reach more than 50,000 herders and 4,000 smallholder farmers in the three states. He added that the activity would be carried out in seven Local Government Areas – Jakusko and Bursaru in Yobe state; Kaga, Biu, and kwaya kusar in Borno state as well as Gombi and Mayo Belwa in Adamawa state. According to him, the project aims to enhance the capacity of targeted communities and local government institutions to manage, operate, and maintain water infrastructure and sources. He said that the project would establish water balance at watershed levels, construct and rehabilitate water sources such as dam, irrigation system and borehole within the threes states for the activity. He said that this would help to reduce conflict among herders/farmers, adding that the activity would increase livelihood opportunities for them.
According to him, the activity will enhance the capacities of partners and government institutions to deliver genders sensitive programming that meets protection needs of the project’s target group. The Governor of Borno State, Prof. Babagana Zulum said that his focus had been on economic recovery and stabilisation as well as strengthening the resilience of the communities. Zulum who was represented by the Deputy Governor, Alhaji Umar Kadafur said that 10,000 hectares of land had been mapped out for the cultivation of special crops such as maize, millet, and groundnuts,  among others in 21 local government areas of the state. According to him, the state government has passed a legislation that would facilitate the establishment of humanitarian coordinating units that would streamline only interventions from donor partners, international, local NGOs. He said that the interventions would help solve the problem of duplication of work, create impacts on lives, and reduce wastage of resources. He thanked USAID for its support in improving the livelihoods and the economy of the state. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Muhammed Nanono said that the government was interested in ensuring food security within a short time. Nanono who was represented by Prof. Murtala Sagagi, Special Adviser to the minister, said that the government was interested in adopting the agricultural value chain approach to grow the country’s economy, create jobs, and reduce poverty. He said that the ministry’s intervention plan would focus on five key areas, namely: value chain development, livestock development, mechanisation, extension, and standardisation. Nanono added that the ministry was currently reviewing the country’s agricultural policies and plans in a move aimed at improving the economy.