Two goals from Gabriel Jesus helped a nervy Manchester City earn a 2-1 victory over Everton at the Etihad Stadium on Wednesday. The win meant new Everton manager Carlo Ancelotti suffered his first English Premier League (EPL) defeat in this second coming. Ancelotti had enjoyed two wins from two before the trip to Manchester. But the writing appeared to be on the wall as Phil Foden thought he gave Manchester City a 13th minute lead. The Video Assistant Referee (VAR) to spot an offside in the build-up. For the remainder of the first half, Manchester City were not at their best, but came out after the interval with added impetus. They took the lead in 51st minute through Jesus, for the Brazilian’s sixth goal in five matches against Everton. That soon became seven in five as Jesus drilled home Riyad Mahrez’s pass seven minutes later to make it two. Stand-in Manchester City goalkeeper Claudio Bravo gifted Everton a way back into the match as Richarlison scored with 19 minutes left. The home fans held their breath as Manchester City looked uneasy defensively and Everton pressed for the equaliser. But the visitors could not find that killer final pass as Manchester City held on for a fourth win in their last five games. It places them one point behind Leicester City in second, but 11 behind leaders Liverpool, having played two games more than the Reds. Everton remain 10th. Crystal Palace 1-1  Norwich City An 87th minute goal from Connor Wickham, allowed by a VAR review, earned Crystal Palace a 1-1 draw at bottom club Norwich City in the English Premier League (EPL) on Wednesday. It was a bitter blow for the struggling Canaries who had led after a fourth minute goal from Todd Cantwell and dominated for large stretches. But they were unable to add to their tally, with Kenny McLean hitting the bar in the 73rd minute. However, Crystal Palace drew level when Wilfried Zaha pushed a pass across the face of the goal to Wickham who slid the ball home, only to see the offside flag raised. But a VAR review ruled that Wickham was just onside when the ball was played and reversed referee Jon Moss’s decision. Norwich are winless in eight games and have just one victory in 16 matches. The side bottom of the Premier League going into a new year has been relegated in 23 of the previous 27 seasons. Southampton 1-0 Tottenham Southampton completed a rejuvenating holiday schedule with a superb Danny Ings goal earning them a 1-0 win over stuttering Tottenham Hotspur on Wednesday. Ings fooled former Southampton defender Toby Alderweireld with a great piece of skill to fire the hosts in front in the 17th minute, and a laboured Tottenham rarely threatened. A hamstring injury to Harry Kane forced the England striker off in the second half to ensure it was a miserable start to the new year for Tottenham. To worsen matters, manager Jose Mourinho was booked for an altercation with the home coaching staff. Kane was injured scoring a goal that was disallowed for offside, the decision confirmed by VAR. Southampton have collected 10 points from 12 in their last four games to climb out of the relegation zone and up to the relative safety of 12th with 25 points. Tottenham remain in sixth place, six points behind Chelsea who occupy fourth spot. West Ham 4-0 Bournemouth David Moyes made a perfect start to his second spell in charge of West Ham on Wednesday with a 4-0 home win over Bournemouth in the English Premier League (EPL). Two goals from Mark Noble and one each by Felipe Anderson and Sebastien Haller gave the Hammers the win. Moyes saved the club from relegation during a six-month stint in 2017/2018 and replaced Manuel Pellegrini at the helm on Sunday. On Wednesday, he led West Ham into producing arguably their best performance of what has been a patchy season. Noble fired the home side ahead with a deflected 17th minute shot from 20 metres. Haller doubled their lead with a spectacular goal eight minutes later, blasting in a Ryan Fredericks cross with an acrobatic volley. Noble rounded off a perfect first half for West Ham with a 35th minute penalty kick, sending goalkeeper Aaron Ramsdale the wrong way. The penalty kick was awarded after he was fouled by Harry Wilson as he muscled his way past the Bournemouth forward. Anderson added the fourth midway through the second half as he shook off his marker and slid the ball under Ramsdale. A VAR check later rescinded a red card for West Ham defender Aaron Cresswell, who was instead booked for a poor tackle. The result lifted West Ham to 16th in the standings on 22 points from 20 games. Eighteenth-placed Bournemouth, who have 20 points, dropped into the relegation zone after suffering their eighth league defeat in the last 10 games. (Reuters/NAN)