Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of  Lagos State has promised come up with a programme aimed at empowering widows of the members of the Armed Force who laid  down their lives to defend and protect  their fatherland . Sanwo-Olu,  said this on Wednesday  during the parade and laying of wreath  to commemorate 2020 Armed Forces Remembrance Day. The ceremony held at the Remembrance Arcade, Tafawa Balewa Square, Onikan,  was organised by the state government. Sanwo-Olu said that there was the need to empower the widows of the fallen heroes  for them to  be able to fend for their families and themselves. He said that the government would discuss with the wives of  the Officers of the Armed Forces to know  possible  areas that  the widows  could be  empowered. ”We will look for all the widows of our fallen heroes in the next programme and empower them, because that is really what they require,” the governor said. He said that the state government would continue to remember the fallen heroes and not let their efforts go unappreciated. Sanwo-Olu urged the serving officers and men of the  Armed Forces  to always do their best to ensure safety of lives and properties in the country. ”As you can see,  it is a very solemn and humble ceremony. It is something that we need to continue to do. “We need to remember and thank all our fallen heroes that had done well for the country at one point or the other. ”It is very significant and something we will continue to celebrate and appreciate. For us as a nation, all  their efforts will not go unnoticed. ”This is also a clarion call to  the men still in service, that when issues happen, the government will certainly not forget them,” he said. Sanwo-Olu also  said that the government was security friendly and would be collaborating  with the security agencies in  several ways. He added that some members  of the Nigerian Legion were employed by the state as a way to continue to support them. Also, the Chief Judge of Lagos State, Justice Kazeem Alogba,  said  that the programme was to appreciate the efforts of the  Armed Forces, especially the fallen heroes,  for the sacrifices they  made for the country. Alogba said that the deceased laid down  their lives for the peace, unity and freedom of the country, hence, they would always be remembered. ”This is to show that the fallen heroes are not forgotten and also a way of rekindling courage in those still in service wherever they  may find themselves. ”This is a call to everyone to serve judiciously and l pray we do not lose our lives in the course of service,” he said.