The Vice President of the Republic of Ghana, Dr. Mahamudu Bawumia, will join his Nigerian counterpart, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, as Special Guest of Honour at the premiere of Airtel Touching Lives Season 5 to be hosted on January 25th by mobile telecommunication giant, Airtel Nigeria. The event, which will also be attended by the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, will feature top government officials, captains of industry and top media executives and will showcase Airtel’s flagship Corporate Social Responsibility initiative, Airtel Touching Lives, aimed at providing succor to less privileged members of society. In its fifth year, the event highlights several social investments by the telco in support of government’s pursuit of the Sustainable Development Goals, covering infrastructure, healthcare, poverty alleviation and empowerment. Commenting on the event, the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of Airtel Nigeria, Segun Ogunsanya, said Airtel is passionate about promoting Corporate Philanthropy and will continue to rally important stakeholders across different sectors and geographies to support the weak and underprivileged persons across society. “Airtel Nigeria is inspired to promote corporate philanthropy and sustainability and our Touching Lives platform affords us an opportunity to showcase our efforts through the years and also seek to encourage other entities as well as well-spirited individuals to join hands in improving our society,” he said. Airtel Touching Lives is an inspiring corporate social responsibility initiative that seeks to offer practical relief, succor, hope, opportunities and credible platforms to liberate and empower the underprivileged, disadvantaged and hard-to-reach persons in the society. The activities of the show are recorded and produced for national television with a view to promoting the spirit of giving, self-sacrifice and love among Nigerians. Since Airtel launched the Touching Lives initiative five years ago, it has achieved remarkable successes having restored hope of despaired individuals and families, saved many from the throes of death and empowered many underprivileged Nigerians.