Alternative Petroleum Technologies Holdings Corp. (APT) has signed a distribution agreement with Alternative Petroleum & Power Ltd. (APPL) The distribution agreement covers the sales territory of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) which include Nigeria, Ghana, Liberia, Sierra Leonne and Senegal, amongst others. The distribution agreement covers the full range of APT technologies including its unique, patented, cost-saving Sulfex™ desulfurization process. “We are honored to partner with APT to continue our eco-friendly, sustainable business mission while taking advantage of the Nigerian Federal Government’s gas liberalization policy” stated APPL Executive Director Alh Muawiyah Farouk. “We are very excited to be working with APPL to bring APT’s environmentally friendly technologies to the ECOWAS countries.” stated APT Director, Steve G. Stevanovich. APT’s unique, patented, cost-saving Sulfex™ desulfurization process uses liquids, in a low pressure and low-temperature environment to achieve petroleum based fuel sulfur levels less than 10 ppm and produces a finished fuel ready for use. APT’s Sulfex™ process is operationally much simpler than the HDS system currently used at refiners to desulfurize petroleum based fuels, making it considerably less expensive and much safer to use. The process has been independently validated by the U.S. Department of Energy’s Argonne National Labs (www.anl.gov) and the initial mass balance of the plant has also been reviewed and confirmed by a global engineering firm. Other additional APT technologies include proprietary Emulsion technologies that create stable mixtures of emulsified fuels, which contain varying percentages of water content. The emulsion technology can be applied to various base fuels in combination with water, creating a wide array of pollution reducing fuels. These fuels reduce both oxides of nitrogen (NOx) and particulate matter (PM) pollution created during the combustion process. APT’s Diesel Oil Emulsions (DOE), Fuel Oil Emulsions (FOE) and Residual Oil Emulsions (ROE) have proven significant emission benefits over diesel and significant advantages over “alternative fuels” because its use requires no engine modifications, uses existing diesel fuel oil infrastructure, and requires virtually no re-training of personnel.