Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq on Monday received the United Nations-backed ‘HeforShe’ award for his efforts and cabinet picks which have mainstreamed gender inclusion in the state’s political structure. The award was conferred on the Governor in Ilorin, the state capital, when the Minister of Women Affairs Dame Pauline Tallen paid an advocacy visit to rally the people of the state behind the national campaign against gender-based violence. AbdulRazaq made history last year when he appointed the most women-friendly cabinet on the African continent, a feat he recently cemented with the appointment of at least 50 percent female permanent secretaries in the state. Both feats are a first in the state and the country. Pauline said the Governor has earned himself a golden place in the world’s hall of fame for gender inclusion, and called on him to do more to fight maternal death and other issues affecting women. “The award is in recognition of your outstanding contributions to promotion of women’s rights, visibility and empowerment,” Pauline said, commending the Governor for his exemplary style of governance and his pursuit of gender inclusion which has attracted both local and international recognition. She said the ‘HeforShe’ campaign was a brainchild of the United Nations to recognise any public office holder with exceptional passions to drive gender equality, adding: “we want to put it on record that our dear Governor of Kwara State deserves to be recognised not just in Nigeria but by the United Nations. “We are here today to celebrate a champion who has proven his words. We are here to launch the HE for SHE Gender Equality campaign, which he (AbdulRazaq) deserves more than any other governor. We wanted this visit long ago to encourage and strengthen him and to tell the World that we have the champion who has set the pace and who needs to be encouraged and acknowledged.” She urged the governor to use his office to get more women in leadership positions at the grassroots, including elective positions. AbdulRazaq, for his part, said the choice to work with women was borne out of his belief in women’s ability to multitask, their reliability, and their commitment to excellence. “We have noticed in many things that women are very talented. They are good managers. They often think out of the box. They keep the home and working executive jobs, combining everything together. We thank our mothers, wives and daughters for their contributions to humanity,” he said. “We truly appreciate your visits and your recognition of what we are doing. And for the honour you bestowed on us, it will be an encouragement to my peers.” AbdulRazaq commended the Minister for the honour and how she kept making Kwara a reference point for gender inclusion, hoping to consolidate on such record in other key sectors of the economy. He, alongside the visitors, also used the event to pray for safe return of children and other people being held by Boko Haram and other armed groups. Kwara Gov urges new monarchs to work for peace, as seven monarchs get staffs of office Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq on Monday called on traditional rulers to build bridges of harmony, understanding, tolerance and peaceful co-existence among the people and neighbours. The Governor spoke in Ilorin, the state capital, when he gave staffs of office to seven monarchs. He was represented by the Commissioner for Local Government Affairs, Chieftaincy Affairs and Community Development Architect Aliyu Saifudeen. “This presentation of staffs of office uniquely positions you to build bridges of harmony, understanding, tolerance and peaceful co-existence among your people and neighbours. There can be no meaningful development in an atmosphere of rancour, discord, distrust and dissatisfaction,” AbdulRazaq said at the presentation of 3rd and 4th class of office to seven newly appointed chiefs in Kwara State. “Traditional rulers have been a strong pole of support for this administration. Therefore, I must not fail to show my gratitude and deep appreciation to all the royal fathers for their commendable role.” The monarchs are: Olokeopin of Oke-Opin Oba Ezekiel Ajibola Arigbajoye; Onimasudo of Masudo Oba Abdulwahab Bolaji Usman; Aniwo of Afin, Ile-Ire, Oba Simeon Ibiyinka Olaonipekun; Asa-Oro of Alasaro Oba Moses Adesina; Eleku of Odo-Eku Oba Abdulwahab Ogunbiyi; Oninaja of Inaja Inaja-Alaro Oba Ganiyu Olarewaju; and Onilupeju of Ilupeju Oba Muhammed Olanrewaju Odunade. AbdulRazaq implored the traditional rulers to reflect on their people’s peculiarities and use their positions to build on the strengths that come from their diversities and common brotherhood. “I wish to congratulate the royal fathers, the good people of the various communities and Kwara State in general on this auspicious occasion. I pray that today will mark the dawn of a new era in your domains. I also urge you to encourage the people to participate in our government’s programmes,” he said. For his part, the Permanent Secretary Local Government, Chieftaincy Affairs and Community Development Alh. AbdulRazaq Alabere charged the traditional rulers to always carry their people along in whatever developmental activities in their respective communities. Responding on behalf of the traditional rulers, the Olokeopin of Oke-Opin (Ekiti Local government) described their appointment as a call to service. He commended the Governor and the people of their various communities for the confidence reposed in them, and promised to justify their elevations by ensuring peace and development of their communities.