Junior Chamber International, Nigeria has called on Nigerians to nominate prospective young Nigerians that are advancing the cause of human and global development for its 2021 ‘Ten Outstanding Young Persons Award, that is also known as JCI Nigeria TOYP. The nomination process for the TOYP commences from December 15th, 2020 via the organisation’s web portal www.toyp.jci.ng and will last for forty-five days slated to close by January 31st 2021. TOYP Chairperson, Oluwakemi Irinoye said that the criteria for application enable nominees who are young Nigerians that have attained national prominence before the age of 40, and not JCI members alone. “The process requires procedure that allows for the nomination of any young Nigerian, who resides in or out of Nigeria and is between the ages of 18 and 40”, she explained Irionye further urged the general public to use the link www.toyp.jci.ng to nominate any outstanding young person with distinguished records in categories that include business, economic, entrepreneurial accomplishment, political, legal and/or governmental affairs, academic leadership and/or accomplishment, and cultural achievement. Other category she mentioned are moral, environmental leadership, contribution to children, world peace, human rights, voluntary leadership, science, technological development, personal improvement or accomplishment in medical innovation. She said the award selection process entails a panel of eminent and credible Nigerians from different works of life that will streamline the nominees to just thirty. “This will be done after the close of the nomination process. Subsequently, the last ten finalists will emerge through a public voting process monitored by an audit firm and they will be recognized during a special TOYP award ceremony slated for 12th of August, 2021. Winners in these categories will be further nominated for the World JCI TOYP where they get to be honoured worldwide if they are eventually selected. The 2021 National President-elect of the organisation, Abiola Olorunisola said that JCI Nigeria as an organization believes that recognizing young people raises their status of being socially responsible leaders in the world as their stories of discovery, determination and ingenuity inspire young people to be better leaders and create better societies. JCI is a membership based, non-profit organization of young active citizens between the ages of 18 and 40 that are dedicated to creating positive change in their communities. JCI forms a vibrant global community of nearly 200,000 active citizens and a rich alumni body. Previous recipient that have won the awards on the global stage are Ray Ekpu (1988), Dr. Modupe Osho (1996), Dr. Ola Orekunrin (2013), Imrana Alhaji Buba (2017), Adepeju Opeyemi Jaiyeoba (2017), Jacinta Uramah (2018) and Samson Itodo in 2019. Other winners of the award includes individuals like, Rt. (Hon.) Rotimi Amechi, Mrs Ibukun Awosika, Shina Peters, Daddy Showkey, Richard Mofe Damijo, Femi Anikulapo-Kuti, Gbenga Sesan, Kanu Nwankwo, Kafayat Shafau, Linda Ikeji, Japheth Omojuwa.