The Federal Executive Council presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari has approved N487 million for the procurement of a banking application software for the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria. Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, made the disclosure at the end of the meeting of the Council in Abuja on Wednesday. Fashola expressed the hope that the introduction of the software would boost the efficiency of the mortgage bank, in line with modern banking techniques. He said “The other memorandum I presented, which was approved, was for the procurement of a core banking application software for the Federal Mortgage Bank in the sum of N487,394,285.71, to enable the bank provide all of the frontline services that other banks now provide in all of its branches nationwide. “Unlike other banks, the Federal Mortgage Bank is still unable to send automated notices, statements and all of those things, to National Housing Fund contributors; all the types of alerts you get and operating accounts form any branch irrespective of where you maintain your account.” He noted that the application, when fully installed, would enable the bank to do a lot of automation, reconciliation, loan and credit processing. Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, who also briefed on the outcome of the meeting, disclosed that the council approved N768 million for procurement of 44 operational vehicles for Nigeria Immigration Service. He added that the council also approved N2.1billion for the furnishing of the Immigration Technology Building. He said “Council approved the procurement of operational vehicles to enhance efficiency in the service for those who have been recently promoted in the Nigeria Immigration Service, Comptrollers, Assistant Comptroller Generals, Deputy Comptroller Generals as well as patrol vehicles. “The council approved procurement of 44 operational vehicles at total contract sum of N768,077,08 million. The beneficiaries are messers PAN, Kawra and Wanla Motors Nigeria Ltd. “Council also approved contract for the furnishing of the technology building, that is the data and communication command and control centre, it will also serve as the service headquarter of the Nigeria Immigration Service. “The award is in favour of messers Julius Berger Nigeria Plc at the total sum approved is N2,100,080,759.65 billion.’’ The Ministers of Special Duties, George Akume and the Minister of State Science and Technology, Mohammed Abdullahi, said they also briefed the council. They said their briefings were on the outcome of their meetings with stakeholders in their home states in the aftermath of the ENDSARS protests in Benue and Nasarawa States. N117bn for reconstruction of roads The Federal Executive Council (FEC),  presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari, on Wednesday in Abuja,  approved N117.6 billion for the reconstruction of some federal roads. The Ministers of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola and his Water Resources counterpart, Sulaiman Adamu, made the disclosure when they briefed State House correspondents on the outcome of the FEC meeting. Fashola stated that the road projects were approved to make roads travels more comfortable. He said: “The first set of roads is for a total sum of N18,923,846,198.47 and it is with respect to roads and bridges including  the rehabilitation of 26km road linking Kano, Jigawa and Katsina States at the cost of N8.767 billion, Omor-Umulokpa road in Anambra and Enugu States and N1.712 billion for the rehabilitation of Oye-Oranto road in Anambra at the cost of N2.5billion.’’ He said N1.057 billion was meant for the construction of Okpokwu bridge along Ogoja-Okuku-Benue-Cross River road; N1.022billion for a bridge at KM 22.7 on Bida-Zungeru road in Niger; N1.072 billion for Nkumi bridge, linking Abia and Enugu States, and Challawa-Nunku road in Kombotso, Kano State, to gulp N2.787 billion. “The other memorandum relating to roads is also for the total sum of N98,073,840, 842.81. “The roads are Rijiya-Gusau road in Zamfara, N7.799 billion; Jega-Kwana-Sanagi-Gumi road in Kebbi State, N31.539 billion; Koko-Mahuta road in Kebbi, N19.713 billion; Kuka Babbangida-Gangara road in Katsina State, N11.731 billion; Ihiala-Olu-Umudu road, N16.750 billion; Oye-Ama-Etite -Umuawulu road in Anambra, N2.155 billion and rehabilitation and reconstruction of roads in Bichi, Kano State road in Kano State, N8.384 billion,” he said. On his part, the Minister of Water Resources said the council approved N200million as reversed cost for an extension of time for consultancy services for Tada Songhai irrigation project in Kwara. He also revealed that the council approved an award of contract for a dedicated power line for an irrigation project in Iseyin, Oyo State. “As you know, most of our irrigation system used to be powered by diesel generators but because of deregulation and with diesel it has become so expensive and not sustainable. “So, we have to look for other ways and means to power irrigation systems, we are looking at both National grid and solar. “In this case, we have an interim arrangement to extend power from national grid to power irrigation scheme,’’ he added.