All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader, Sen. Bola Tinubu, has urged Nigerians to let kindness reign as they celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ. Tinubu, in a Christmas message on Thursday in Lagos, also beseeched all to place in their hearts and minds the commitment to be more tolerant and less judgmental of their fellow being. The APC leader urged all to help those who are without instead of blaming people for the situation in which they find themselves. He said: “Give those who currently lack kindness not criticism; give them bread and meat, not bitterness and despair. Tinubu, while congratulating Christians, explained that Christmas is a day to be thankful for as Jesus Christ provided a precious gift unto us. He urged all to act in the spirit and teachings of Jesus. The former governor of Lagos urged Nigerians to celebrate in moderation and adhere to all COVID-19 protocols to limit spread of the disease. “I must beseech you to forgo such large gatherings this year for the sake of our collective health. “In its essence, Christmas is a celebration of life and this year we best celebrate life by doing what we must do to protect ourselves and our loved ones from this terrible virus. “Yet, we also must take solace in the fact that nothing, not even this virus, can rob us of the spirit of Christmas and the hope and brotherly love it represents. “With the emergence of the coronavirus, 2020 has been as a plane flying through turbulent skies, a year that has raised challenges like no other year has. “Yet, by the grace of God, we have persevered and shall continue to move forward,” he said Tinubu noted that in normal times, Christmas offered Nigerians of all faiths an opportunity to gather with family and friends to celebrate the birth of Jesus. “Unfortunately, COVID came to steal much from us. “But if we act in the spirit of Jesus, we shall defeat this disease and the other ills it seeks to impose on us. “Despite all that we have gone through, let kindness reign during this period. “Let us place in our hearts and minds the commitment to be more tolerant and less judgmental of our fellow man. “As the pressures of this year try to push us low, we must adhere to the teachings and manner of Jesus to uplift ourselves and this great nation. “By doing so, we not only celebrate the birth of Jesus, we celebrate his life and the divine reason he came to live among us,” the APC leader said. According to Tinubu, “it is difficult to say “Merry Christmas” because the moment which we now inhabit does not lend itself to merriment. He, however, wished each and every Nigerian a peaceful, rosperous and meaningful Christmas. “I pray that we act toward each other as Jesus instructed. “If we can do this, we will emerge from the current turbulence a much better people, society and nation,” he said.