APC candidate, Abiru, emerges winner of Lagos East Senatorial by-election The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared Mr Tokunbo Abiru, candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), as winner of Saturday’s Lagos East Senatorial by-election. The INEC Returning Officer for the by-election, Prof. Ademola Oremosu of the University of Lagos, declared the result at Somolu collation centre at 7:20a.m. on Sunday. Oremosu said that Abiru polled a total of 89, 204 votes to defeat his closest rival from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr Babatunde Gbadamosi, who scored 11,257 votes. Declaring the winner, Oremosu said: ” I, Prof. Oremosu Ademola, certify that I am the Returning Officer for the 2020 Lagos East Senatorial by-election held on the 5th day of December Year 2020. The election was contested. “That Abiru Mukhail Adetokunbo of All Progressives Congress, having satisfied the requirements of the law and scored the highest number of votes is hereby declared the winner and returned elected.” According to him, Muyiwa Adebanjo of Action Alliance (AA) got a total of 96 votes, Mercy Adeoye of African Action Congress (AAC) scored 248 votes, while John Kome of African Democratic Congress (ADC) polled 376 votes. He said that Adebowale Ogunlaru of Action Democratic Party (ADP) polled 535 votes, Olusola Babatope of Allied Peoples Movement (APM) scored 202 votes, Florence Trautman of Labour Party (LP) got 58 votes, while Adijat Lawal of New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) polled 52 votes. Oremosu said Akin Olukunle of National Rescue Movement (NRM) got 65 votes, Saheed Aluko of Social Democratic Party (SDP) scored 35 votes, while Taiwo Temitope of Young Progressive Party (YPP) scored 208 votes. According to him, out of the total registered voters of 1,261,673 in the district, the total accredited voters was 104, 894, the total vote cast was 104, 405, the total valid votes was 102, 336, while the rejected votes were 2,069. Commenting, Mr Dele Oshinowo, the APC Party Agent for the Senatorial election, expressed gratitude to residents of the district for voting Abiru, saying the candidate would not let them down. Oshinowo, who is Chairman, Agboyi-Ketu Local Council Development Area, Lagos State, commended INEC and security agencies for conducting a peaceful and credible by-elections. The NRM agent, Mrs Temilola Akinade, who described the election as free and fair, said that the party would buckle up and forge ahead to gain acceptability. Mr Olusegun Jaiyeola, the party agent for YPP said: “To be candid and fair, the election is fair from what I could see. Other political parties need to come up, re-strategise because the gap was too much. “However, the turnout was too low than expected, especially after the EndSARS protest. People need to take election more seriously. Nigeria needs ballot revolution.” Deacon Segun Aroyewun, the PDP party agent, said that the desperation for political power was increasing day by day, hence the need to checkmate it. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that 12 candidates of various political parties contested in the election necessitated by the demise of former occupant, Sen. Bayo Osinowo. The APC defeated PDP in all the five local government areas in Lagos East senatorial. district In Somolu, APC polled a total of 17, 728 votes to defeat PDP which polled 2067 vote while in Epe, APC scored 22, 213 votes to defeat PDP with polled 1826 votes. In Ibeju-Lekki, APC polled a total of 16, 336 to defeat PDP candidate which scored 937 votes, while in Ikorodu, the APC polled 19, 204 votes to defeat PDP which scored 3766 votes. In Kosofe, the APC polled a total of 13, 723 to defeat PDP which scored 2661 while 10 other political parties that participated in the elections got less than 200 votes in each of the LGAs. APC wins Dass state constituency in Bauchi state The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared Bala Lukshi of the All Progressives Congress (APC) the winner of the just concluded state assembly by-election into Dass constituency of Bauchi state. Prof. Ahmed Mohammed of Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University (ATBU), Bauchi, the returning officer, announced the results in Dass on Sunday. He said that the candidate of APC polled 12,299 while Lawal Wundi of PDP scored 11,062 votes. He said the total registered voters across the 10 existing electoral wards in the area was 58,112, while the electoral officers accredited 24,546 for the polls. He said further that the number of total votes cast was 24,376 and total number of valid votes was 24,020 with rejected votes of 356. He commended the security agencies and all stakeholders who participated before, during and after the elections for their maturity and understanding. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that no fewer than eight registered political parties participated in the election. The parties included the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), All Progressives Congress (APC) and the African Democratic Congress (ADC). Others were the Young Progressives Party (YPP), Zenith Labour Party (ZLP), National Rescue Movement (NRM), New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), and the Social Democratic Party (SDP). NAN reports that the by-election into the Dass constituency was sequel to the death of the former member Musa Baraza (APC), who was killed by on Aug. 13, by gunmen. INEC declares PDP’s Odey winner of Cross River North senatorial by-election The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Sunday declared the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr Stephen Odey, winner of Saturday’s Cross River North Senatorial by-election. The Collation Officer for the by-election, Prof. Ameh Akoh of Alex Ekwueme Federal University, Ikwo, Ebonyi, who announced the result, said Odey scored 129,207 votes to defeat eight other candidates. Akoh said the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr Joe Agi (SAN) scored 19,165 votes to emerge second while the candidate of the African Democratic Congress, Mr Gregory Agam, came third with 388 votes. “I, Prof. Ameh Akoh of the Alex Ekwueme Federal University, Ikwo, Ebonyi State, hereby declare that Dr Stephen Odey of the PDP having scored the highest number of valid votes is hereby declared winner of the Cross River North senatorial by-election. “The PDP candidate is hereby declared winner in line with electoral guidelines,” he said. The senatorial by-election followed the death of Sen. Rose Oko. The party’s candidate, Mrs Maria Akwaji, also won the Obudu State Constituency seat in the House of Assembly. Akwaji obtained a total of 32,166 votes to defeat her closest rival, Mr Abor Adaji, of APC who scored 3,546 votes. The Collation Officer, Prof. Abel Ezeoha, of Alex Ekwueme Federal University of Technology, Ikwo, Ebonyi, announced the result after collation from different polling units. Akwaji is the wife of the Late Goodwin Akwaji who died in July in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. By the result, she takes over the seat of her husband as member representing Obudu State Constituency. According to INEC, nine political parties contested in the senatorial by-election and six in the Assembly by-election. In his reaction, a PDP agent, Mr Thomas Aruku, described the party’s victory as well deserved. “I see the victory as well deserved because among all the political parties in this election, it was the PDP that criss-crossed the 54 electoral wards. “So, to me, we are just reaping the fruit of our labour,” he said. APC winner of Imo North senatorial by-election without candidate The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), has declared the All Progressives Congress (APC) winner of the Dec. 5, Okigwe senatorial by-election. Announcing the result, the returning officer, Mr Hakeem Adikum, said  that the APC polled a total of 36, 811 votes, while PDP came second with 31,903 votes. The News Agency of Nigera (NAN), however, reports that the commission did not return a candidate from the party. Adikum said APC won in five out of six Local Government Areas (LGAs) in the senatorial district while the PDP came second having won only in Obowo LGA. He declared that the LGAs won by the APC are Okigwe, Onuimo, Isiala Mbano, Ehime Mbano, and Ihitte Uboma. “I hereby return the All Progressive Congress as the winner of the by-election held in Imo North on Saturday, Dec. 5,” he said. Speaking, INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in Imo, Prof. Francis Ezeonu, said that the commission was unable to return a candidate from the APC as winner. He explained that this was as a result of what he described as “several Court orders” for and against the two major contenders, Frank Ibezim and Ifeanyi Araraume, a former senator. He said that two Court judgments had surfaced on Friday, one from the Court of Appeal, Owerri, and another from the Federal High Court, Abuja. It will be recalled that the Court of Appeal faulted the judgment of the Federal High Court, Owerri, which had nullified the candidacy of Ibezim and declared him candidate while sacking Araraume barely 24 hours to the election. The Federal High Court, Abuja had on the other hand declared Araraume as candidate of the party, on the grounds that Ibezim presented fake certificates to the APC and INEC. The election was conducted in the 10 Wards of Bakura Local Government, but Prof. A’isha Bawa, Registration Area Supervisor for Bakura Ward 001, while submitting her report to the Returning Officer at the collation centre in Gusau, announced that two INEC adhoc staff were missing.