Malam Mele Kyari, the Group Managing Director, Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) says the new Oredo Integrated Gas Handling Facility (IGHF) will boost the establishment of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) through improved power supply to the immediate environment. Kyari spoke on Tuesday in Oredo, Edo, during the inauguration of the 200-million cubic litre capacity IGHF/Petroleum Development Company (NPDC) by President Muhammadu Buhari in Ologbo community. Kyari said the gas plant would also provide social amenities to the immediate host community and enhance the quality of livelihood of the people. “The conception and delivery of this project hinges principally on NNPC’s commitment to support national aspirations for increased domestic gas utilisation. “It will enhance LPG utilisation among Nigerian households to support energy efficiency and curtail environmental degradation. “This facility is constructed on two two plots – the Process/Cryogenic plant and the LPG/Propane Storage and Dispensing Plant. “The facility is equipped with eight dispensing arms and storage capacities of 2,600 and 1,550 metric tons of LPG and propane respectively. According to him, the key enablers for the realisation of this project are substantially anchored on the president’s strategic vision that set the growth of the gas sector as one of its cardinal priorities to help harness Nigeria’s abundant natural gas. In his remarks, Chief Timipre Sylva, Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, said inaugurating Oredo IGHF plant at the close of year told a lot on his determination to deliver on his promises in the face of challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Sylva noted that the accomplishment of the project highlighted the commitment of the NNPC in eliminating gas flare “Nigeria has made unprecedented strides in the area of gas infrastructure development that will facilitate exploitation and monetisation Nigeria’s massive gas resources for national development. “Beyond the swath of social amenities and employment opportunities, the project will offer broad vistas for business development among the host communities,” Sylva said According to the Minister, NNPC and its affiliates are clearly providing leadership in the industry by championing the hopes and aspirations of the Nigerian government towards aggressive gas sector investments. Obaseki assured of adequate security Gov. Godwin Obaseki of Edo on Tuesday assured the public of adequate security in Ologbo community to safeguard the new 200-cubic litre Integrated Gas Handling Facility (IGHF) plant at Ologbo in Edo. Obaseki gave the assurance during the inauguration of the National Petroleum Development Company (NPDC)/IGHF plant by President Muhammadu Buhari in Ologbo community. He said that the state government would work with the security agencies in the state to ensure that there was peace in the community. “We will continue to work for peace in Edo because we are peaceful people, we will work with all stakeholders to ensure peace because without peace there will be no development “We will work with NPDC to make Ologbo and Edo a gas hub in Nigeria,” he said. According to him, this plant will attract local and international investors to invest in Ologbo which will boost economic activities in the community. “Today we are making history again by commencing the demostic gas revolution in Edo. “Over the decade, we have explored for gas in Nigeria and the practice has been to pipe other gas towards the waterfront and export the gas abroad but that has changed in 2020. “With NNPC now exploring for gas in Nigeria’s largest onshore gas belt, we are proud that the Oredo field in Edo account for some of the largest onshore of gas reserves in this country. “For us in Edo we are blessed apart from agricultural resources, we are blessed with energy particularly gas, to drive the economy and we would be taking full advantages of this natural endowment,” he added. The governor, however, appealed to the management of NNPC to review its Gas Sales Agreement (GSA) signed several years ago such that the price of gas offering its customers reflect the current reality in the market In his remarks, the Group Managing Director of NNPC Mele Kyari, commended the people of Ologbo for their peaceful disposition which he said made the siting of the project possible in the community. Kyari said: “This project has created value following the peace enjoyed in Ologbo. We know we have a governor that will sustain the peace in the state. “This project will bring development to Ologbo people, the state and the nation at large. “The peace is required for customers to come take LPG here so that the value created will yeild development to the people of Ologbo”. Minister of State for Petroleum Resources Timipre Sylva said a lot
of progress had been made in the area of gas in 2020, adding that the the federal government had provided the needed support to improve gas exploration in Nigeria. “Few weeks ago, President Muhammadu Buhari rolled out auto gas programme which talked about gas penetration. “We are focusing on gas supply to enable the nation achieve its plan on gas. “2021 will be a better year for the nation. It will begin the decade of gas in Nigeria and alot of achievement for the nation. “This gas revolution has started from Oredo and will spread to other parts of the country and the world will hear of Nigeria as gas destination, ” the minister said.