WorldStage Newsonline– The Federal Government of Nigeria has announced three weeks extension for subscribers with National Identification Number (NIN) from 30th December, 2020 to 19th January, 2021 and six weeks extension for subscribers without NIN from 30th December, 2020 to 9th February, 2021. The extension  was announced on Monday as part a resolution from a meeting that was chaired by the Honourable Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ali Ibrahim (Pantami) with major stakeholders in the sector including Chairman-Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC); Executive Vice Chairman (EVC), NCC; Director-General (DG), National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA); DG, National Identity Management Commission (NIMC); Executive Commissioner, Technical Services (ECTS), NCC; Executive Commissioner, Stakeholder Management (ECSM), NCC; Chairman, Association of Licensed Telecom Operators of Nigeria (ALTON); Chief Executive Officers of MTN, Airtel, Ntel, Glo, Smile, and 9Moble in attendance. THe resolutions include; Based on the endorsement of the Federal Government of Nigeria, the following resolutions were made: Three (3) weeks extension for subscribers with NIN from 30th December, 2020 to 19th January, 2021. Six (6) weeks extension for subscribers without NIN from 30th December, 2020 to 9th February, 2021. “NIMC has provided strategies to enable citizens to attend the registration in full compliance with Covid-19 protocols – particularly the use of facemasks which remains mandatory and maintenance of social distancing. “The President appreciates Nigerians for their patience and commitment to update their Identities; The Federal Government also thanks all stakeholders for their compliance with the directives. “ Mr. President has also commended the efforts of the Task Force and urged all stakeholders to take advantage of the extension to link their SIM card with their NIN.  “Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD) and verification charges remain suspended during these extensions.”