WorldStage Newsonline– The Osun government on Sunday said there would be no countdown to New Year ceremonies and cross over nights under whatever guise by religious bodies and groups during the New Year eve. A statement by Mr Wole Oyebamiji, the Secretary to State Government, in Osogbo, said government had directed the security operatives in the state to enforce the directives without exception. Oyebamiji said that other directives aimed at curbing the spread of the Coronavirus were still in force. The statement read: ” In addition, the ban on youth carnivals still subsists. “Also, all social clubs, hotels, departmental stores, supermarkets, event centres and allied centres are to henceforth operate at half of their capacities and observe COVID-19 protocols. “Wearing of face masks at public places is equally compulsory. “We want to appeal to all residents and citizens to cut down on social gatherings, including weddings, naming ceremonies and funeral ceremonies so as to reduce the spate of exposure and contact with possible carriers visiting the state during the Yuletide. “Also all towns and cities are to put on hold the annual days through physical attendance and change such to the virtual version. “We assure all citizens and residents that Government is insisting on all these measures in their collective interest. “Therefore, let’s all join hands with Government to keep Osun safe.” Meanwhile, the Ogun State chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria has appealed to the state government over the directive suspending cross-over services and carnivals for the New Year amid the spike in COVID-19 cases nationwide. CAN noted that the directive of the state government had stoked grave misgiving among churches in all parts of the state. It said the government did not suspend the cross-over night service as widely reported. The state governor, Dapo Abiodun had in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, suspended cross-over services and carnivals for the New Year in view of the increase in COVID-19 cases in the country. The governor had, also, directed civil servants to proceed on Christmas and New Year break from Thursday, December 24, 2020, to Monday, January 4, 2021. The state Chairman of CAN, Bishop Tunde Akin-Akinsanya in the statement titled, ‘A passionate appeal for the observance of cross-over night,’ said there had been serious concerns over the ban. The CAN Chairman said he decided to solicit for the indulgence of the governor to allow for the observance of the cross-over services in churches in the state like it is happening in Lagos State. The statement read, “In view of the second wave of COVID-19 Pandemic and its consequent restrictions on religious activities across the State, there have been so many calls and appeals by the Church leaders for the observance of Cross-Over Night on December 31, 2020. “To this end, I hereby write on behalf of the leadership and entire structure of Christian Association of Nigeria, Ogun State, to solicit for the indulgence of Your Excellency to allow for the observance of the Cross-Night among the Churches in Ogun State just as it is the in our neighbouring Lagos State. “In the spirit of operating in consonance with COVID-19 protocols, it is our plan and request: “That churches be allowed to START the Cross-Over Night Service by 10:30 pm on 31st December 2020 and END it by 12:15 am on 1st January 2021. “That the worshippers be allowed movement back to their places of abode between 12:15 am and 1:00 am on 1st January 2021. “That the Churches shall put in place and observe all the necessary COVID-19 protocols as released by the government. “The Church of Christ in Ogun State shall be very happy and grateful to His Excellency for granting this request.”