Nigeria’s leading customer-focused telecommunication company, 9mobile, has reassured its enterprise customers of improved Quality of Service (QoS) on its network in 2021. This reassurance was given during 9mobile’s Enterprise Customer forum 2020 in Port Harcourt recently. The Forum is designed to appreciate customers for their loyalty while receiving their feedback for better service response. Speaking at the event, The Chief Commercial Officer of 9mobile, StjepanUdovicic, commended the partners for their commitment, support and patronagewhile also assuring them of more robust plans and projections 9mobile has put in place to offer more quality products and services. According to him, “we are committed to take our networkengineering and productcapabilitiesto greater levels in 2021 and beyond so that we are able to support you more effectively. Your feedback is very crucial to us in order to service you better in the incoming year”. Udovicic maintained that 9mobile’s projection is to have better collaboration with enterprise customers,noting that, “the telecommunications industry is an innovative one; therefore, there is need to be more specific and deliberate in service delivery. We are going to have lots of customization, where enterprises can customize solutions that meet their needs and satisfy their unique industries basedon feedback. We will prioritize Internet of Things(IOT), machine learning, artificial intelligence, new technologies around5G explorationin different parts of the country.” Also, 9mobile’s Head of Enterprise Sales, Mr.OlalekanFatusa, said that customers can look forward to more collaborative engagements from 9mobile, as the industry is becoming more innovative, deliberate and need specific. Responding to a wide range of comments from customers, Fatusaassured that all feedback will be prioritized responding to the issues highlighted both in the region and in other parts of the country.” Martins Ojugbeli, 9mobile Regional Head, South-South, said the event was also organized to recognize and appreciate their corporate customers for their support and patronage, for which the brand is promising to reciprocate throughimproved customer experience on our network. “We are telling our customers the kind of enterprise solutions we are going to roll out; we have also discussed how we are going to improve on the network in terms of coverage and quality,” he said. Ojugbeliexpressed confidence in the outlook of the company on the basis of responses received. “Our customers have said it all, they are with us and behind us, and they have given their commitment that we have their support going into 2021.”