The Lagos State Health Management Agency (LASHMA), in its commitment to ensure that residents at the grassroots have access to affordable, effective and quality healthcare, has partnered with First Bank of Nigeria Limited to utilise its over 13,000 Firstmonie Agents as payment channels for the Lagos State Health  Scheme (LSHS). The General Manager, Lagos  State Health Management Agency (LASHMA), Dr. Emmanuella Zamba, made the disclosure during  the flag off of the partnership in Alausa, saying that the partnership became necessary to facilitate ease of health insurance premium transactions for residents, especially at the grassroots. She noted that FirstBank was selected for the partnership in recognition of its effectiveness, efficiency and large clientele base. “The Agency realised that not all residents can go to the Bank or use online platforms for the payment of their health insurance premiums, hence the Agency identified the need for other payment platforms such as the Firstmonie Agents”, Dr. Zamba explained. Asserting that the partnership would avail residents the opportunity to  pay either N40,000 annually for family plan or N8,500 annually for individual plan through any of the Firstmonie Agents, the General Manager said that once the insurance premium is paid before 25th of every month, such enrollee can receive care from the first day of the following month at any public or private hospital of  their choice within the scheme’s network of providers. While commending the good gesture of First Bank of Nigeria Limited, Dr. Zamba urged other corporate and multinational organisations to support the Agency towards ensuring that Lagos residents, irrespective of their tribal, cultural or religious differences, access quality healthcare. The General Manager disclosed that efforts are being intensified to ensure that residents can also enrol for the Scheme at any of the Firstmonie Agents situated within their localities. The Deputy Managing Director, First Bank of Nigeria Limited, Mr. Gbenga Shobo, who commended the Lagos State Government for its determination in ensuring the good health and wellbeing of all residents, said “the initiative will have a crucial role at improving the life expectancy of Lagos residents, whilst promoting their increased contribution to the growth and development of the State”. He implored residents not to hesitate to pay their health insurance premiums at any of the Firstmonie Agents located in all the local governments and local council development areas in the State in order to have their health secured. Shobo advised residents in the State to register and enrol in the Scheme in order to enjoy the good gesture of the present administration led by Mr. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu.