EU leaders have agreed to cut carbon emissions by at least 55 per cent by the end of the decade, compared to 1990 levels – a big step up from the current goal. “Europe is the leader in the fight against climate change,” European Council President Charles Michel tweeted. “We decided to cut our greenhouse gas emissions of at least 55 per cent by 2030.” The deal struck by the 27 members of the bloc came after more than 10 hours of negotiations that lasted into Friday. A face-to-face summit between the premiers had started on Thursday afternoon, and sealed decisions on the EU’s long-term budget and recovery fund, the coronavirus, and sanctions against Turkey. But the climate goals turned out to be the most contentious issue. The increase from the present 40 per cent reduction target was proposed by the European Commission in September, and encountered resistance in some EU states, like coal-reliant Poland. Commission President Ursula von der Leyen welcomed the deal. The new goal “puts us on a clear path towards climate neutrality in 2050,” she said. But making it reality will require major overhauls in the energy and transport sectors as well as a huge push to renovate buildings. Huge investments will be required. One of the main sticking points is how these targets should be set between the member states. Poland argued that emissions reductions should be relative to a country’s gross domestic product per capita, essentially lowering the targets for lower-income countries, and that it would need more financial support to achieve emissions reductions. Environmental organisations criticised the new goal. Nonprofit group Oxfam said the new target “still falls short of what is needed and what is fair.” “The EU must take urgent practical steps to deliver above and beyond this target,” the organisation said. Echoing similar sentiments, the Climate Action Network welcomed the agreement but said it didn’t go far enough. “But given the profound existential threat we are facing, EU leaders cannot allow overly high emissions to continue for another decade and will need to go beyond the agreed target. “Science is clear that at least 65 per cent emission cuts is the way forward,” Director Wendel Trio said. So far the EU has cut 22 per cent of its emissions compared to 1990, a recent commission study found. The European Parliament, which itself is pushing for a slightly higher goal, must still approve the new target.