Stakeholders in the insurance sector have called on the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) to create more awareness to enable citizens understand and key into insurance programmes. They made the call at a retreat for members of the House Committee on Insurance and Actuarial Matters organised by the commission in Uyo. Mr Darlington Nwokocha, the Chairman, House Committee on Insurance and Actuarial Matters, regretted that enough sensitisation was not being done to enable citizens understand the benefits of insurance. He said that lack of adequate data was also a challenge to the growth of the insurance industry. “You should involve the committee in your sensitisation programme because every one of us is representing members of his constituency who we can reach effectively and promptly in our local dialects,’’ he explained. Mr Chinedu Ogah, a member of the committee, said that there was a need for the commission to liaise with relevant agencies to ensure that foreign visitor to the country possessed insurance certificates from their country. “When anyone wants to travel from Nigeria to other countries, they ask for our insurance certificates but I do not think that they check for the same certificate when they enter our country. “The commission should look into this,’’ he said. Mr Onyeka Samuel, an insurance expert in a lecture titled: `Enhancing Insurance Regulation and Supervision in Nigeria, the Role of the National Assembly’, lamented that the country was the lowest in terms of insurance penetration when compared with other sub-Saharan countries. Samuel noted that the country had about 0.6 per cent in terms of insurance penetration with South Africa leading with 16 per cent in the ratings. “Our market has not been scratched. We have a lot of opportunities to make insurance work and to everybody’s advantage. “By introducing flexibility in insurance regulation, by enlarging relevant insurance industry specific regulations and by carrying out proper over-sight on the insurance industry as required. “The National Assembly will be enhancing the insurance regulation and this will translate to growth and development in the insurance sector,’’ he said. Mr Alhamdu Sabo, a lawyer and insurance expert, in a lecture titled: `Legal Frame-work of Insurance in Nigeria’ called for a review of the motor vehicle third party insurance to accommodate emerging trends. Reacting to the call, Mr Sunday Thomas, the Acting Commissioner for Insurance of NAICOM said that sensitisation was part of the commission’s plan for the year. He disclosed that the awareness, which would be done in collaboration with insurance operators, would be in the six geo-political zones of the country. Thomas, who said that most citizens lacked proper knowledge of their rights in insurance, noted that the sensitisation would help improve their knowledge.