The Ben Enwonwu Foundation in collaboration with the Society of Nigerian Artists and supported by Alliance Française /Mike Adenuga Centre Lagos, will on February 26, present the fifth edition of its monthly series of talks ‘Point of View’(POV). It will hold at Alliance Française/Mike Adenuga Centre, Ikoyi, Lagos. Drawing from other creative disciplines and such diverse sectors as government, science and technology, POV interrogates the evolving role of the visual arts in addressing major issues affecting Africa and the rest of the world by impacting policy, raising awareness, advocating for change and inspiring action. Thefifth edition of ‘Point of View’ (POV 5) themed‘Funding for the Visual Arts: Public and Private Sector Partnership’examines recent developments in public and private sector funding support for the creative arts in Nigeria. High on the agenda is the Creative Industry Financing Initiative (CIFI), a collaboration between the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Bankers’ Committee that seeks to improve access to long-term, low-cost financing for entrepreneurs and investors in the creative and information technology sectors in Nigeria. Presentations and discussions will revolve around the seeming exclusion of the visual arts from such policies and their overall expected impact in stimulating economic growth, capacity building, skill acquisition and job creation. In funding and strengthening policies that will transform Africa, the event will also serve to examine and compare models and partnerships in the United Kingdom and elsewhere. The presentations ‘Including the Visual Arts in the Promise of Creative Industry Growth: The CIFI and Other Financial Policies’ will be handled by Uche C. Nwuka, Group Head, Creative Industry, Bank of Industry; Funding for the Visual Arts: Public and Private Sector Partnership by OdunayoSanya, Executive Secretary, MTN Foundation, MTN Nigeria; The Business of Art and Socioeconomic Transformation in Africa – The Hatch Ideas Case Study by Yemisi Mokuolu, CEO, Hatch Ideas Worldwide The Panel Discussion on ‘Transforming Africa through Culture: Funding and Strengthening Policies’ will involve Yvonne Ike, Managing Director, Head Sub-Saharan Africa (Ex-RSA), Bank of America Merill Lynch; Femi Akinsanya, Chairman First Ally Capital; JubrilEnakele, MD/CEO Iron Capital; ChijiokeUwaegbute, Partner/Leader, In-sourced Solutions for Tax, West and Central Africa PwC. The panel will be moderated by Jumoke Sanwo, Creative Director, Revolving Art Incubator. The event is supported by the Society of Nigerian Artists, Alliance Française Lagos, Five Cowries Art Education, Jackson, Etti& Edu, Vanguard, Ventures Platform, BusinessDay, Connect Nigeria, TSA Contemporary Art Magazine, EKO Trends, Environews Nigeria, The Lagos Weekender, The Sole Adventurer, WildflowerPR, Outsource IT Services and Omenka.