Emerging Markets Telecommunication Services Ltd. (EMTS), trading as ‘9mobile, has announced the appointment of SBI Media Limited as its official media agency. SBI Media, whose appointment starts with immediate effect, emerged as a result of its vibrancy, creativity, teamwork and resilience. With this appointment, SBI Media now takes responsibility for charting all media-related creatives of planning, buying and other relevant activities for 9mobile. The Award-winning media agency is expected to deploy innovative strategies to create, plan and execute exceptional media campaigns for 9mobile. It is noteworthy that the appointment of the agency is at a pivotal time for 9mobile as the innovation-driven mobile carrier makes a huge comeback into the Nigerian telecoms market. The appointment of SBI Media is a strategic fit for the vibrant mobile carrier given the agency’s culture of innovation and doggedness. In a recent interview, the Managing Director of SBI Media Limited, Mr. Rotimi Bankole, expressed his delight on the appointment and stated that he sees the appointment as an opportunity for his team to prove their mettle as the next-generation agency with innovative, vibrant and dynamism. In his word, “I have high respect for 9mobile, coming in at a time when other players were already operating, it gained its market shares and continues to grow its brand and create value for its various subscribers. Commenting on his agency’s plans for 9mobile’s brand, Rotimi said, “they came into the market to haunt for skill and competence, and, we operate on the culture of excellence and speed. We are therefore committed to drawing from our pool of talents and result-oriented network of individuals to support 9mobile for further growth in the telecommunication space.” He added that: “We also invite other successful and aspiring brands to join us, we are fast-growing our network of clients and partners and there is no better time than now for us to partner together.” Reaffirming their commitment to serving their clients better, the Head Media and Planning, Alison Oyome said “It was a thorough process that we are proud to be part of. The fact that we won the keenly contested pitch is a humbling experience that we are all proud of as a team. We hope to use this learning as a challenge to give excellent and top-notch media strategy and planning services for the brand.” Samuel Odusami, the Group’s Head of Strategy and Data, said “I am pleased to be part of the team that made this win possible. It is a collective effort that is at the core of our culture over the years. We look forward to taking this as a learning point to achieve more success,” Continuing he said, “As a group, we hope to have the strongest, most-strategic, agile and committed team to deliver top-notch solutions for 9mobile, our broad clientele/partners base as well as future partners.” SBI Media Limited is the flagship brand of the SBI Media Group. Known as the next-generation media agency, the group is the West African strategic hub of Masscom Global (MCG), a global network of 30 agencies in emerging markets and Asia Pacific. The agency is committed to delivering client’s expectations on creativity and excellence