WorldStage Newsonline– The Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) in collaboration with the Nigeria Institute of Quantity Surveyors have urged communities to own up projects executed in their areas. The Head, Constituency and Executive Project Tracking Group (CEPTG), Mr Tanko Abdullahi said during project tracking of rural road at Amuro in Afikpo-North Local Government Area of the state that it was important for people to monitor projects situated in their areas to encourage competence, development and prevent substandard ventures. According to him, the Commission created various enlightement activities to inform the public on its fight against corruption, acts that amount to wrong doing and to get them to be part of the crusade. He called on town unions, traditional rulers, women, youth leaders and individuals, among other groups to show interest in taking responsibilities of the project. The head further gave complaints platforms of the ICPC, if suspicious fraudulent act in the execution was discovered. Abdullahi urged them to make use of the ICPC dissatisfaction toll-free telephone lines on 08031230280-2, 07056990190-1, email info@icpc.gov.ng and social media platforms, icpcnigeria1, icpc_pe. “Once a project is awarded, communities should own the project by monitoring its execution to ensure quality work is done and not abandoned. “They should help protect the projects from thieves and vandals so that money spent is not wasted, thus would pose the community to suffer the need. “The projects is for the benefit of your community, therefore, do everything you can to ensure your community is not deprived of its use or benefit,” Abdullahi said. The Chairman, Nigeria Institute of Quantity Surveyors, Ebonyi Chapter, Mr Ogbonna Ndubuisi, maintained that bill of quantity was key in tracking projects execution. Ndubuisi said its application during an exercise would help to track worths, specifications and standards of project to be executed. He described the bill as a document that encompassed work to be done and cost attached. “It is used during tracking and also for evaluation,” Ndubuisi said. Dr Kelechukwu Okezie, the Director, Neighborhood Environmental Watch Foundation and member of the tracking team, said that more enlightement programme would enable the general public to understand activities of the team. He said that such responsibility by communities was key in fighting corruption through constituency and execution projects tracking. “When projects are sited in a community, it is expected that they own up the project by monitoring,” Okezie said. The  team embarked on tracking construction of a supposed 700 meters rural access road in the community but 600 meters was executed.