WorldStage Newsonline– Nigeria’s Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 has confirmed that   262,579 Nigerians have been tested for COVID-19 in the last five months. The Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, said on Monday in Abuja at the 53rd national briefing of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 that, “With 262,579 persons tested, we have crossed the quarter million mark. When the epidemic curve will begin to flatten is still a matter of conjecture, given the relatively small fraction of our population that has been tested so far.” He said that the total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in the country crossed the 40,000 mark to 40,534 over the weekend, with 555 new cases recorded in the past 24 hours. He, however, said that 17,374 had been successfully treated and discharged, while the nation regrettably recorded 858 deaths, most of them with comorbidities. The minister said 60 PCR Public Health laboratories were now active in the country, which together should be in a position to address testing capacity challenges and ramp up utilization if only the logistics could be improved. According to him, this will, along with sheer community spread, be responsible for the rising trajectory of the epidemic curve in the population tested so far. The minister said that the 70 to 30 male to female gender ratio and the case fatality rate of 2.1 per cent had not changed significantly, as two thirds of all fatalities remained in the over 50-year age group. The minister said that comorbidities like diabetes, hypertension, asthma, among others, were common among all fatalities. He said: “They underscore the need to protect senior citizens and the vulnerable from infection, by giving special attention to risk communication and priority for admission for observation and treatment. “Of utmost concern are still the asymptomatic cases, with the potential to spread the disease, of whom the young and able-bodied can be difficult to manage.” Ehanire assured that the government would continue to improve the quality of services in the hospitals as more persons admitted for treatment, not only for COVID-19 infection, but also for routine and essential care. According to him, it is also our desire to reduce the fatality rate, and expand our treatment capacity such that our health system is not overwhelmed. “In this regard, the FMoH expects to take delivery of the newly completed Isolation Centre at UATH, Gwagwalada, as other centres are under construction nationwide.” He also said that the UN System in Nigeria informed of the arrival of another consignment of essential COVID-19 related commodities on Sunday, to be officially handed over to Nigeria. He said the Federal Government remained appreciative of the UN System for this gesture and its consistent support, which had greatly increased reserves and recognized the country’s needs, especially of oxygen concentrators and PPEs. According to him, the gesture also reassures our frontline health workers that we are well stocked and can ensure availability of essential items and consumables at the point of need. The minister also formally introduce the new Country Representative of the World Health Organization (WHO), Dr Walter Kazadi Mulombo, who assumed duty in Abuja recently. On the coming Sallah celebration, Ehanire urged Muslims and all Nigerians to continue to adhere strictly to the COVID-19 protocols and to reduce risk of transmission amidst celebration, especially on wearing of facemask, hand-washing and use of sanitizers, among others. Meanwhile, the PTF has extended the phase two lockdown by one week from the initial one month extension. The Secretary to the Government of the Federation and chairman of the PTF-COVID-19, Boss Mustpha, revealed that, “The PTF has continued to evaluate the developments as well as the level of compliance nationwide. “(It) has regrettably come to the inevitable conclusion that majority of Nigerians irrespective of status, creed and level of education continue to live in denial on the virulent nature of the virus and consistently breach the  guidelines and non-pharmaceutical measures put in place. “We informed you two weeks ago that the process of submitting the 6th Interim Report and recommendations for next steps had commenced. “The PTF has reached advanced stages of the process. It has also considered that due to the upcoming Sallah (Eid El-Kabir) festivities which coincides with the expiration of the current phase, it would be prudent to extend by one week, from 29th July, 2020 till Thursday 6th August, 2020. “It has accordingly secured permission to retain the existing guidelines till that date.” Mustapha further called on Muslims and all Nigerians to observe all measures put in place to reduce the curve of the pandemic. “We note with delight, the increasing number of States that have shelved activities during the Eid-el-kabir and we still urge others yet to do so, to follow suit. “WHO has also issued Safe Eid practices in the context of COVID-19 and I urge us all to access and disseminate. The National coordinator will also elaborate on this. “Similarly, the PTF appreciates the Nigeria Supreme Council of Islamic Affairs (NSCIA), who has always been a great champion in the fight against the pandemic, for advising Muslims to avoid massive gatherings at Eid grounds and pray at Area Mosques under prescribed protocols.”