WorldStage Newsonline– Nigeria is recording successes in the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals, according to Mrs Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Sustainable Development Goals (SSAP-SDGs) . Speaking at a virtual workshop on Nigeria Integrated National Financing Framework (INFF) on Thursday in Abuja, she said that stakeholders have contributed in no small measure towards these feats. Orelope-Adefulire explained that INFF was a Nigerian initiative to be driven by the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning and the Office of the SSAP-SDGs. She said that both technical and financial support would be coming from United Nations Development Project (UNDP), European Union (EU) and other stakeholders. She added that Nigeria would present its second Voluntary National Review to the High Level Political Forum (HLPF) on July 10 through a virtual meeting at 4 p.m. local time, adding that all stakeholders are invited to be part of it. She said that the INFF would strengthen commitment of policy makers and foster the commitment of development practitioners and captains of industry in the implementation of the SDGs. At the virtual meeting, Dr Zainab Ahmed, Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, said that the ministry was working with relevant MDAs to ensure the implementation of key fiscal priorities with focus on improving revenue generation. She added that the ministry was focused on optimising collections and targeted reform measures to ensure the necessary fiscal space for implementation of Government policies and the achievement of the SDGs. The Minister noted that specific cross-sectoral programmes and projects aimed at achieving the SDGs had been incorporated into the national budgets and would be included in future budgeting frameworks. “Nigeria, like all other United Nations (UN) member countries is at a critical crossroads when it comes to addressing the financial gap for implementing the SDGs and ensuring resilient inclusive and sustainable growth. “The Development of INFF is crucial, particularly in the context of the response to COVID-19 pandemic, as it will support us in moving towards the Nigeria we want and the Nigeria that our citizens deserve,” Ahmed said. Stakeholders at the virtual meeting included the Minister of State, Budget and National Planning, Mr Clement Abba and the United Nations Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator in Nigeria, Mr Edward Kallon. The participants pledged to support the course of the implementation of SDGs in Nigeria.