WorldStage Newsonline– Cadbury Nigeria Plc has commended Mr Atedo Peterside, its immediate past Chairman, for his pragmatic leadership style that greatly transformed the company these past years. Mrs Oyeyimika Adeboye, Managing Director, Cadbury Nigeria,  in a statement she signed and issued to newsmen on Thursday, said Peterside  contributed significantly to the Company’s growth. “Cadbury Nigeria Plc has benefitted from Mr Peterside’s wealth of experience,  his inspiring leadership style and astute management skills have been of significant value to our company.” Adeboye added that he had been a great support to executive management, challenging and encouraging the team through the years. She said the Board, Management and Staff of Cadbury Nigeria appreciated the immense contributions of the outgoing chairman’s success to the company and wished him well in his future endeavours. The managing director explained that Peterside had been a member of the Board of Directors of Cadbury Nigeria since Aug. 5, 2009 and  became chairman on  April 21, 2010. “He announced his resignation from the company on June 30, 2020, to move on to concentrate on other challenges,’’ Adeboye said. Earlier, in a statement announcing his resignation,  Peterside said: “We successfully held our 55th Annual General Meeting (AGM) last week and our Managing Director has settled nicely and consolidated her position over the course of the last 15 months. “The Company is on a profitability path that can be sustained if normal trading conditions are allowed to prevail. “ The Board of Cadbury is well endowed and my departure from the Board also enables the Company to inject a new independent director into the fold. “ The periodic injection of “new blood” is good for the system, especially when further diversity is achieved in the process via geography, demography and the injection of new and varied skill sets.” The statement noted that shareholders at the AGM had commended Peterside for transforming Cadbury Nigeria since he joined the board of the company. Cadbury Nigeria Plc (CNP), a publicly quoted company, is the pioneer cocoa beverage manufacturer offering some of the most loved brands in the country. A front-runner in beverages, confectionery and gum, Cadbury Nigeria’s quality products-Bournvita, Hot Chocolate 3 in 1, TomTom, Buttermint, and Clorets-are market leaders in their respective consumer segments.