Newcastle United head into the short English Premier League (EPL) close season surrounded by uncertainty. This has come after the collapse of the proposed Saudi take-over ——-with an owner who wants to sell the club but with no viable purchaser in place. Club owner Mike Ashley was ready to sell the club to the investment group in a deal worth more than 305 million pounds. This group included Saudi Arabia’s sovereign wealth fund PIF, Amanda Staveley’s PCP Capital Partners and Reuben Brothers. But the take-over bid, announced in April, never emerged from the Premier League’s owners and directors test and on Thursday the consortium pulled out. Fans, who had dreamt of big money signings and competing for European places, now face a more mundane reality for a team which finished 13th in the Premier League last season. While there have been some reports of possible interest from potential purchasers in the US, no actual proposal has appeared. Sources close to the Saudi consortium said they never had to deal with any rival bid. The consortium blamed the prolonged scrutiny process and global uncertainty linked to the COVID-19 pandemic for their decision to withdraw. Staveley has however suggested there may yet be some way to get the deal done. Newcastle United managing director Lee Charnley offered similar hope by saying Ashley, founder of retail firm Frasers Group, remains committed to the Saudi deal. “We acknowledge yesterday’s statement. Never say never, but to be clear Mike Ashley is 100 percent committed to this deal. “However our current focus must now be on supporting (manager) Steve Bruce in the transfer market and on the preparations for the new season,” he said. Ashley has not taken the club off the market but his chances of finding a new buyer may be hampered by the economic uncertainty following the pandemic. Former Newcastle United and England forward Alan Shearer said on Friday that disappointed fans were hoping that a new owner would yet emerge. “There’s a lot of anger, understandably so, and a massive amount of disappointment,” he said. “We can only hope and pray that new owners come in at some stage and take the club back to where it belongs because that’s what the fans of Newcastle United deserve.”