WorldStage Newsonline– The Nigeria Communications Commission (NCC) has said that   it is working with various stakeholders toward developing a policy document that will provide guidance and policy direction for 5G deployment in Nigeria. NCC in a statement  said “the truth is that in Nigeria, we cannot run away from 5G. The rest of the world is leaving us behind; 5G is the 5th generation mobile network. It is a new global wireless standard after 1G, 2G, 3G, and 4G networks. It said 5G enables a new kind of network that is designed to connect virtually everyone and everything together including machines, objects, and devices. Moving from 0% to 1G, 2G, 3G, 4G and now the next frontier is 5G; the commission in the statement shared an insight on what the 5th generation mobile network has got to offer to Nigerians to include: “5G wireless technology is meant to deliver higher data speeds, ultra-low latency, more reliability, massive network capacity, increased availability, and a more uniform user experience to more users. “5G has the potential to provide 20X faster data speeds and carries a massive amount of data for a large number of simultaneous users. So users in high-density areas – like airports, stadiums or urban areas – can still experience the fast speeds and low latency of 5G service. “As the world replaces more and more household items with ‘smart devices’ that connect to the internet, also known as the Internet of Things, this network capacity will be critical. 5G will potentially be able to handle more than 2.5 million connected devices per square mile. 5G is a transformational change from 4G. “5G will enhance technological development because of the extremely fast transfer rate of large quantities of data. Overall, it enables interconnected devices for instant communication. This is a new connected world of ‘Smart cities’ made possible by 5G networks. “5G is extremely fast: it supports data transfer rates of up to 20Gbit/s, if supported by robust fibre infrastructure. On top of that, wireless data delays drop to one millisecond. This opens up the potential for multiple driverless cars, where large quantities of potentially lifesaving data have to be transferred almost instantaneously. “5G network is designed to carry data up to 10 times faster than 4G networks. This means HD movies can be downloaded in seconds. “5G tops out at 10 gigabits per second (Gbps). 5G is 10 to x100 faster than 4G.The use of shorter frequencies (millimeter waves between 30GHz and 300GHz) for 5G networks is the reason why 5G is so fast. “5G has been deployed commercially and in use in some countries. As with the previous technologies, the International Commission for Non-ionizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP) has classified radiation from 5G as non-ionizing and therefore safe for human beings.”