WorldStage Newsonline– The Lagos State Government (LASG), has completed the disbursement of N19.2 million to 300 victims of Abule-Egba pipeline explosion at the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) Internally Displayed Persons (IDPs) camp in Igando, Lagos. The Director-General, LASEMA, Dr Olufemi Oke-Osanyintolu who made this known at a media briefing in Lagos on Friday explained that Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos state had tried in ameliorating the disaster that took place on Jan. 19 at Abule-Egba area of Lagos. He said that the pipeline explosion affected more than 320 people, saying that the victims had been camped at LASEMA IDPs in Igando. Oke-Osanyintolu said that since January, the agency had been improving on the victims’ nutritional status. “Today, we have built their capacity in spite of the low economy being experienced in the state due to COVID-19 pandemic. We were able to keep them in our camp since Jan. 22. “We prevented them from unwanted diseases, we ensured clean environment, and personal hygiene and hospital was provided with adequate drugs and equipment to treat the IDPs. “Toward the tail end, we engaged them with skills acquisition in collaboration with Lagos State Ministry of Poverty Alleviation and at the end, we provided them with equipment to enable them work and improve their livelihood. “We provided them with equipment such as clippers, basic fishing materials, soap making materials and so on. “Today, we have completed the disbursement of the financial assistance. “We are giving 69 households N225, 000 each while we are also giving 25 individuals N150, 000 each,” Oke-Osanyintolu said. He pleaded with the victims to spend the money judiciously, noting that they should also imbibe lessons learnt at the camp, which would assist them to cope with life in the society. The LASEMA boss commended the Lagos State Government, Commissioner for Special Duties, Mr Bamgbose Martins and other stakeholders, who had supported the victims during their camping period. He, however, urged miscreants to stop vandalizing the petroleum pipelines and pleaded with the residents to quickly inform the agency if they discover anyone vandalizing the pipeline.