The University of Ilorin (Unilorin) and the Nigerian Army have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to support research of ballistic composites and promotion of local content development. According to the Unilorin Bulletin issued on Monday, the MoU, was initiated between the Nigerian Army System Development Centre (NASDC) and the Laboratory-to-Product (LABTOP) Centre, Unilorin. The collaboration was expected to enhance and promote a mutual framework within which strategies and specific action could be undertaken to promote Systems and Communication Development within the perspective of the Nigerian Army. It stated that the MoU, signed at the Army Headquarters, would promote exchange of personnel, community service and research between Unilorin and the Nigerian Army through the establishment of a framework for increased cooperation. This, it said, would be under technical specifications for the development of the Multi-layered Armour Composite, Systems Development, Communications, ballistic wares, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), Chemical and Biological Warfare, material engineering and social science. The bulletin quoted the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai, as describing the ceremony as another milestone towards developing indigenous capacity for the production of the much needed military hardware and equipment. “Buratai said that the Nigerian Military had faced challenges over the years in the procurement of military hardware in addressing the myriad of security challenges bedeviling the country. “Due to apathy by some western nations, most of the hardwares cannot be sourced rather the military had to look inwards. “The military had to look inwards to develop capacity for the manufacturing of these hardware and equipment,’’ he said. Buratai said that the Army had established several outfits among which was the Command Engineering Depot, in partnership with the Defence Industries Corporation of Nigeria (DICON). He said both agencies has gone into the development and manufacturing of some of these Military Hardware and Equipment. The Army Chief said the signing of the MoU was another boost to the collective efforts towards the development of the indigenous capacity for the production of these very critical Military Hardware and Equipment. Responding, Prof. Sulyman Abdulkareem, Vice-Chancellor of Unilorin, said that the collaboration between the Army and the university would bring about development in Nigeria. He stated that other scientists in the university were ready to work to improve on the status of the military to an enviable one. The vice-chancellor commended Laboratory-to-Product Unit of the university’s effort in midwifing the MoU, and the Army for making the epoch event a reality. Maj.-Gen. V. O. Ezeoku, signed the MoU on behalf of the Nigerian Army while the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Ilorin, Prof. Sulyman Abdulkareem, signed on behalf of the university.