The leadership of the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) has announced plan to deploy more forces to Maiduguri in the ongoing fight against insurgency. Chief of Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Saddique Abubakar made this known during a working visit to the Air Task Force of “Operation Lafiya Dole” on Wednesday in Maiduguri. According to him, the deployment of more forces was to strengthen the task force. The CAS who inaugurated some projects including accommodation during the visit said it was meant to cater for the additional personnel to be deployed. “The security challenges faced by Nigeria are obstacles to development that can only be surmounted if we remain resolute in the fight against insurgency and other forms of criminality. “I, however, make bold to say that we have, so far, confronted these elements head-on, and for that, I am proud of you all gallant officers and men of the Nigerian Air Force. ”The NAF, through the Air Task Force Op LAFIYA DOLE, has continued to perform very critical roles in providing the much needed air support required for ground operations. “In pursuit of NAF constitutional roles, and in line with my vision for the force, I have constantly sought, not only to evolve strategies that will enable the Service adequately project air power to effectively and efficiently deal with prevalent security threats. ”But to also see to it that personnel welfare is given utmost priority,” the air staff chief said. He said that his administration would continue to do its best to ensure that accommodation problems are eradicated in the NAF. ”As we inaugurate these projects today, I urge you all to utilize the facilities with a high sense of responsibility. “It is my expectation that you will reciprocate by dealing with more effective punches against the remaining Boko Haram insurgents. ”I urge you not to relent as we have to continue fighting until the insurgents are completely eliminated,” Abubakar said. The CAS further cautioned officers and men on the  challenge of COVID-19 and urged them to follow all precautionary measures directed by medical experts to remain safe from the pandemic. Earlier, the Air Task Force Commander, Air Commodore Precious Amadi, who briefed the CAS on activities of the command since January to date, said it flew for 1669 hours in 889 missions to deliver 1,075 sorties.