WorldStage NewsOnline—-  In a bid to enhance agricultural research in Africa, the African Agricultural Technology Foundation (AATF) has signed an MoU with the African Union Development Agency-NEPAD (AUDA-NEPAD). Ms Nancy Muchiri, the Senior Manager, Communications and Partnerships of AATF, made this known in a statement on Wednesday in Abuja. “The agreement will facilitate the improvement of farm productivity through mechanisation to address drudgery and contribute to building an enabling environment for agricultural research and development on the continent. ”The MoU will be guided by core principles and values of the African Union, especially the realisation of Agenda 2063,” the statement quoted Muchiri as saying. Muchiri said that key areas of the agreement include addressing challenges in production of quality foundation seed, a key area of attention for AATF. She said that AATF was already working with the continent’s small and medium seed enterprises to ease production of quality certified seed. ”The two organisations will also focus on strengthening seed certification, variety release policies and processes including development of the private sector, licensing of new agricultural technologies and technology stewardship. ”This will sustain the use of agricultural innovations and products,” she said. Muchiri said that the MoU was signed by Dr Denis Kyetere, the Executive Director of the AATF and Dr Ibrahim Assane Mayaki, Chief Executive Officer, AUDA-NEPAD. She said that it would ensure that both organisations identified flagship projects from the key areas of cooperation to effectively achieve the intended goals. She quoted Mayaki as welcoming the collaboration, saying it would contribute to accelerating Africa’s agricultural transformation. “As articulated in Agenda 2063, Africa’s sustained growth, competitiveness and economic transformation requires sustained investment in new technologies and continuous innovation in areas such as agriculture, clean energy, education and health. ”This agreement will help contribute to this goal,” said Mayaki. Muchiri also quoted Kyetere as saying that the collaboration provided opportunity for the smallholder farmers to benefit from innovative and value adding agricultural technologies.