Universal Music France (UMF), a company of Universal Music Group (UMG), the world leader in music-based entertainment, today announced a strategic partnership with The  Aristokrat Group, a prominent African entertainment company known for discovering & developing one of the biggest acts in the African Music industry today – Burna Boy. With over a decade of experience in developing young African talents, Aristokrat Represents the spirit and The Sound of New Afrika. This strategic partnership consists of a label deal and a publishing deal.The label deal intends to discover and develop African talent, and give them the opportunity to reach a global audience, thanks to the worldwide network of Universal Music Group companies. The first signings of the label deal are Kel P, Jujuboy Star and Tneeya. Kel P is a Nigerian producer, who worked with Burna Boy on his Grammy nominated album African Giant, and recently worked with Wizkid on his Starboy, The Soundman Vol 1 EP.JujuboyStar, isa Nigerian singer, songwriter and producer.Tneeya, is a Cameroonian singer and songwriter.  All Aristokrat Records artists will be signed via Caroline France, a Universal Music France label. The publishing deal intends to discover and develop African artists, songwriters and producers, in order to give them the opportunity to access the global market. The first publishing signings are Kel P, Jujuboy Star and Saszy Afroshii. In announcing the partnership, Olivier Nusse, CEO, Universal Music France, said, “I am very proud that Aristokrat Group has chosen Universal Music France as its strategic partner to reach a global audience!” Bertil David, MD, Universal Music Publishing France, said, “Aristokrat is one of the most important voices in Africa right now. The quality of their A&R, their vision and entrepreneurship is both unique and progressive. We are very proud at UMP to be able to give Aristokrat the global presence they deserve.” Piriye Isokrari, Founder and CEO, The Aristokrat Group, said, “This is an exciting time for African musicians, producers and companies such as ours. Over the last decade we’ve been at the forefront of cultivating the sound and building sustainable structures locally and we are happy to be able to bring our music and culture to the global market through this partnership with the Universal Music Group.” About Universal Music Group Universal Music Group (UMG) is the world leader in music-based entertainment, with a broad array of businesses engaged in recorded music, music publishing, merchandising and audiovisual content in more than 60 countries. Featuring the most comprehensive catalog of recordings and songs across every musical genre, UMG identifies and develops artists and produces and distributes the most critically acclaimed and commercially successful music in the world. Committed to artistry, innovation and entrepreneurship, UMG fosters the development of services, platforms and business models in order to broaden artistic and commercial opportunities for our artists and create new experiences for fans. Universal Music Group is a Vivendi company. Find out more at: http://www.universalmusic.com. About The Aristokrat Group The Aristokrat Group is an African Media & Entertainment Company headquartered in Lagos, Nigeria. Founded in 2009, The Aristokrat Group has expanded at a steady rate and is now present throughout the entire media and entertainment value chain. The Group currently houses a Record label, Touring and Event Production Company, Film and Television Production Company, Music Publishing Company, and Digital Media Company. The Aristokrat Group also offers a wide range of Multimedia & Entertainment Services to artists, labels and corporate brands. http://www.aristokratgroup.com