The Chief of Staff to the Governor of Ekiti State, Hon Biodun Omoleye has said that the various projects and programmes of the Dr Kayode Fayemi administration are targeted at banishing poverty and improving the standard of living of the people of the State, adding that they are executed based on the needs and yearnings of the people. Hon Omoleye stated this at the Ikun Dairy Farm, Ikun Ekiti, when he led the a group of  Stakeholders on tour of  ongoing and completed projects of the State government, as part of activities marking two years anniversary of Dr Fayemi’s administration. The project tour, which was designed as an on-the-spot- assessment by stakeholders, including government functionaries, traditional rulers, students, youths,  community leaders, interest and professional groups and journalists, started with a tour of project in the North senatorial district on Tuesday. Some of the projects visited included Comprehensive Health centre, Ikole Ekiti; Ilupeju-Ire-Igbemo-Ijan Road; Comprehensive Health Centre, Oye; Comprehensive Health Centre, Isan; College of Agriculture and technology, Isan; Oye-Ayede-Ikun Road; Ikun Dairy Farm, Ikun Ekiti; Comprehensive Health Centre, Igogo ; Comprehensive Health Centre, Otun and several school rehabilitation projects in the different local government areas in the district.. Hon Omoleye who explained that the philosophy of the Fayemi led administration is people- centred and premised on improving the living standard of the people of the State. He added that Ekiti was at the verge of taking over agricultural transformation in the Southwest region of the country. Omoleye pointed out that the Ikun Dairy farm had the potential for capital transformation, youth employment, improve State Internally Generated Revenue (IGR), and reduce capital flight. He said, “What you are seeing is a practical demonstration of leadership. Ekiti is on the verge of taking over agricultural transformation in the Southwest. The cows that we have seen are very rich in content. An average cow here as we are told would produce between 15 to 17 litres of milk per day this is a great improvement on the local breeds which you can  hardly get maximum of 7 to 10 litres of milk per day. Applauding Dr Fayemi for providing exemplary leadership in the health sector, Omoleye expressed delight that the various comprehensive health centres visited across the State had been rehabilitated and repositioned to provide the needed basic medical services to their host Communities. Providing further insight into the essence of some of the projects toured, Hon Omoleye said the College of Agriculture and Technology, Isan Ekiti was designed to encourage farming, provide technical supports for farmers and employment opportunities for the teeming youths of the State. He added that the establishment of the institution was part of government’s  response to provide the needed manpower to drive agriculture in the State as part of efforts to banish poverty and make it the food basket of the nation. “To our youths seeing is believing, what you are seeing is designed to transform the several lives of Ekiti youths and by extension Nigerian youths. This is what is called leadership by examples. The emphasis is on food production, we are trying to be the food basket of the Southwest of  Nigeria and we can achieve this. Omoleye appealed to the youth of the State to take advantage of the numerous projects and programmes put in place by the Fayemi led administration to improve the standard of their living. One of the stakeholders on the tour and representative of Radio Callers Association, Mrs Olusola Ogundare while expressing delight at the various project sites visited commended the Governor for striving to transform Ekiti into a better place. Also a Community leader in Ikole Ekiti, Chief Ayodele Owoeye who could not hide his joy at what he saw at the Comprehensive Health Centre, Ikole Ekiti, said the rehabilitation of the health centre would enable health workers at the health facility to perform their duty in a conducive environment. Some of the works done in some of the health centres according to the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Works, Mr Dele Agbede include provision of incinerator, boreholes, water reticulation, renovation of some structures in the health centres, fixing of leaking roofs, painting and provisions of other basic facilities. Agbede said the 25 kilometer Ilupeju-Ire-Igbemo-Ijan which is 10 kilometers done connects the  North and South and Senatorial districts of the State.