WorldStage Newsonline– The Lagos State Government on Saturday urged people in Lagos to disregard ethnic and religious jingoists, whose purpose is to create conflicts. The Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Gbenga Omotoso said in a statement that the attention of the Lagos State Government has been drawn to videos in social media and the online space, creating tension and encouraging ethnic conflicts. He said, “Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has urged the people to disregard the videos, which are the tools of anarchists, whose plan is to create hatred and divisiveness for which Lagos is not known. “Inciting videos of this nature are not what our land needs now, following the loss of lives and destruction that fake news, misinformation and unfounded rumours have triggered in our dear State in the last couple of days. “The government appeals to the people to disregard calls from ethnic and religious jingoists as well as agents of destruction who are on a mission to destroy our State by pitching us against one another for yet-to-be-ascertained reasons.” He said that this is a very critical moment for the people, therefore, it is important that all should stand together and remain circumspect because the brewery of falsehood is unrelenting in its mission. According to him, Lagos State is the melting point of various cultures, tribes and religions across Nigeria. “We have co-existed harmoniously for ages and will continue to live together peacefully. The sad incident of the past few days affected everyone who lives, trades or works in Lagos, regardless of their tribe, culture, race and religion. “This is a time for us to empathise with one another and not listen to purveyors of evil messages, especially on social media,” Omotoso said, vowing that the government will continue to protect lives and property. He warned fake news and inciting message merchants to stop their evil enterprise or face the legal consequences of their destructive actions. “Our dear State will go through this with the resilience for which we are known and come out stronger,” the commissioner said.