WorldStage Newsonline– President Muhammadu Buhari has said that all those responsible for misconduct or wrongful acts by the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), will be brought to justice The president stated this on Monday in Abuja at the launch of the Presidential Youth Empowerment Scheme (P-YES), aimed at creating 774,000 jobs across the Local Government Areas (LGAs) in the country. Buhari also said that the disbandment of the SARS, was the first step to extensive police reforms by his administration. He said: ”I will like to use this opportunity to say a word on the recent genuine concerns and agitations by Nigerians about the excessive use of force and in some cases extra-judicial killings and wrongful conduct of the men of the Nigerian Police Force. ”The disbanding of SARS is only the first step in our commitment to extensive police reforms in order to ensure that the primary duty of the police and other law enforcement agencies remains the protection of lives and livelihood of our people. ”We will also ensure that all those responsible for misconduct or wrongful acts are brought to justice. ”We deeply regret the loss of life of the young man in Oyo State during the recent demonstrations. ”I have directed that the circumstances of his death should be thoroughly investigated. ”Meanwhile, it is important to recognise that the vast majority of men and women of the police force are hardworking and diligent in performing their duties. ”The few bad eggs should not be allowed to tarnish the image and reputation of the force.” On the empowerment programme, the president restated his administration’s commitment to youth development and poverty alleviation. He pledged that the Federal Government policies of social protection and people empowerment would continue on track, despite the challenges posed by COVID-19 pandemic. The president, who described P-YES as a cornerstone of his administration’s social and economic development strategies, said it was part of the overall policy of ensuring that 100 million Nigerians were lifted out of poverty in ten years. ‘`The P-YES is also part of the plan that we adopted in 2016 in which we empowered 100 youths from each of the 774 Local Government Areas with the necessary tools to acquire skills and establish small businesses. ”Given the success of that initiative, we are now committed to creating 774,000 jobs across all the LGAs, through the P-YES programme,” he said. Buhari, who took a tour of P-YES tools and equipment displayed at the forecourt of Presidential Villa, expressed delight that the materials showcased represent the fruits of the initiatives embarked upon by his administration in 2016. ”All the tools, machines and equipment that are exhibited here, are products of the efforts of these empowered youth entrepreneurs. ”I note with particular pleasure that they were all fabricated in Nigeria by Nigerian youths using locally sourced materials. This is a wonderful and uplifting achievement. ”As an entrepreneurship empowerment project, the P-YES programme aims to address the needs of unskilled and less educated youth. ”It targets key areas of activities that are of practical importance and are essential to every aspect of our economy. ”These include areas such as agriculture and food processing, restaurant and catering, tailoring and fashion design, technical skills such as in the Information and Communications Technology sector, artisanship, welding, carpentry and joinery, other small businesses and activities associated with the micro-economic sector of this economy,” he said. The president also called on State Governments, Ministries, Departments and Agencies of government to factor the P-YES into their programmes to assist the youth realise their potentials in their chosen fields. He urged local and foreign private sector operators in Nigeria to also contribute their share to the expansion of this programme through channelling their corporate social responsibility efforts towards skills acquisition, creation of start-ups, and other intervention measures. Buhari declared that the expansion of the P-YES would now be vigorously pursued, adding that more resources would be committed to the achievement of its goals and objectives towards youth empowerment and entrepreneurship development. He commended the Office of the Senior Special Assistant on Youth and Students Affairs, under Nasiru Adhama, for driving the P-YES programme in accordance with the mandates prescribed for the office and the programme. He expressed confidence that the programme being supervised by the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation would make significant difference. In his remarks, Adhama assured the President that as achieved in the pilot phase of the programme the selection of beneficiaries in the full-scale P-YES scheme would be done with the utmost transparency and credibility. He added that equal opportunities would be observed in the delivery of equipment, tools and machines to all States and Local Government Areas. The Vice-President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, Senate President Ahmed Lawan, Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State and Gov. Dave Umahi of Ebonyi were among the personalities that witnessed the launch of the P-YES scheme.