Attack by some hoodlums on the cargo terminal in Ilorin to prey on palliatives meant for the poor is condemnable, inexplicable, and does not reflect the good nature of the people of the state, the Kwara State Government said on Friday. The government said the CACOVID and the state government had since distributed majority of the palliatives to the identified vulnerable households in 15 of the 16 local government areas of the state, according to a statement by the Commissioner for Communications Harriet Afolabi-Oshatimehin. “The remaining palliatives in the terminal, which the hoodlums preyed on until chased away by security agencies, were meant for special vulnerable groups and just one local government where names of the beneficiaries have just been delivered and officials have started distributing when the street urchins breached the wall of the facility,” the statement added. “It would be recalled that the CACOVID and the state government had since September 23rd flagged off the distribution of the palliatives. But it was meant for specific households, as dictated by CACOVID, and so names had to be properly generated to allow for transparent and orderly distribution. “The actions of the hoodlums are condemnable and those already arrested would face the full weight of the law. The government would not tolerate anyone hiding under any guise to disrupt the peaceful atmosphere in the state. The government commends the security agencies for acting with restraint in the face of provocation by the hoodlums.” Before the attack, the commissioner had issued the statement below Kwara govt raises alarm over planned attacks on public properties Kwara State Government has raised the alarm over plots by some anarchists to launch violent attacks on public properties in the state as part of their grand plan to destabilise the country to achieve sinister objectives. “The government is in possession of intelligence reports that some anarchists, backed by certain political interests, are planning to attack public facilities in the state especially the capital city Ilorin. Specifically, we are aware of the evil plan to attack the facilities where the palliatives recently donated by the Federal Government are being kept for further distribution to victims of the recent rainstorm,” according to a statement by the Honourable Commissioner for Communications Harriet Afolabi-Oshatimehin. “It is important to state that the disbursements of the federal government’s palliatives to the victims began since Monday October 19. It is still ongoing as of today, October  23rd. “The State Government has alerted the security agencies to the evil plots to attack public properties. Even so, this serves to inform members of the public of the plots of some unpatriotic elements who have hijacked the peaceful protests nationwide to impose anarchy and advance their own political cause. The government therefore urges members of the public to be vigilant and not let down their own guards while every effort is being made to secure lives and properties of every citizen. Finally, the government urges members of the public to go about their lawful business without any fear.”