In a bid to deepen its partnership and create wealth for their individual customers, Heritage Bank Plc, Nigeria’s Most Innovative Banking Service provider joins the rest of the world to celebrate the annual Customer Service Week themed, “Dream Team.” Customer Service Week is an annual event dedicated to celebrating customers and serves as an opportunity to renew dedication to service excellence, which is usually marked within the first full week of October and this year is being celebrated from October 5th – 9th, 2020. As part of the actions to extol the patronage and loyalty virtues of their esteemed customers, Heritage Bank lined up several unique and special activities to appreciate the customers. Some of the activities, which will be implemented during the period, include Timeless Wealth Journey Challenge for staff to challenge which displays a typical customer’s journey with the Bank at different stages of their relationship, through a video reel. Others, according to a statement from the Corporate Communications Department of the bank include, “Fastest Finger Trivia: Be the first to answer our daily trivia correctly and win a gift. Don’t miss the chance to win. “Special Customer Service Week Dress code: There is a different dress code for each day throughout the week. Watch out for details later! “Staff Face Mask Swag: Show us how you’re accessorizing your look in the ‘new normal’, with your colourful face masks.” Meanwhile, the statement from the bank, which quoted a goodwill message of the MD/CEO, Ifie Sekibo, said that the Customer Service Week has again provided a good opportunity for the bank to exhibit the importance of Teamwork and leadership in customer care in the financial industry through well-coordinated and professional customer delivery. The statement further revealed that Sekibo encouraging staff of the bank work harder in attaining uncommon results and successfully work as a team within the bank. According to him, Heritage Bank’s staff should build trust and team Spirit, foster creativity and learning and encourage a sense of ownership. “Working together showcases your talents to teammates. It provides a feeling of safety that allows ideas to emerge. Open communication is key when working as a team. When people work together as a team, creativity thrives. Brainstorming ideas as a group prevents stale viewpoints that often come out of working as an individual or in silos, and this enables you to achieve more. “Team projects encourage employees to feel proud of their contributions. Working toward achieving the banks goals allows you to feel connected to the bank. This builds loyalty, leading to a higher level of job satisfaction,” Sekibo stated.