WorldStage Newsonline– The Nigeria Communication Satellite (NIGCOMSAT) Ltd. has advised internet users to be cautious of the internet fraudsters because of the existence of some dangerous sites. Its Managing Director, Dr Abimbola Alale, gave the advice on Wednesday in a statement by Mr Adamu Idris, the General Manager, Corporate Affairs, to commemorate the International Cybersecurity Awareness Month. October is the International National Cybersecurity Awareness Month (NCSAM). This is to create awareness on cybersecurity and to provide the public with general knowledge and tools required for online safety. Alale said that the cyberspace was filled with malicious codes, links, Trojans and viruses with millions of unsuspecting users becoming vulnerable to those threats more than ever before. “As we embark on the Cybersecurity Awareness Month, we are bringing to your notice some tips that could keep you safe on the internet. “Internet users are, therefore, advised to be in the habit of securing their devices by using strong passwords and biometric features if possible,’’ she said. Alale said though, using strong password was desirable, it was also important to use two or multi-factors authentication system as it comprises two or more layered protection. She advised users to desist from connecting into the public network. “Internet users are counselled to connect to secured and trusted or private networks, if possible, especially when handling financial or any sensitive transaction. “On data management, users are informed to back up their data periodically. “It is very crucial to back up your data, remember malicious threats and hackers do not always want to steal just your data. “But sometimes, the game plan is to encrypt or erase it to either cause you harm or lead to ransom seeking,’’ she said. Alale said that cybersecurity awareness had become imperative and was in line with the Ministry of Communication and Digital Economy vision. “Think before you click; clicking on the wrong link could cost you dearly,’’ she said. According to her, malicious links can do damage in several ways. “So, the public is asked to be sure to inspect links and ensure that they are from trusted senders before clicking,’’ Alale said. She also advised users to update connected systems regularly to keep software protected from bugs and other vulnerability. Alale urged internet users to endeavour to use good antivirus software and firewall solution.