**Urges the parties to resolve dispute to allow reopening of Varsities The leadership of the Senate on Tuesday held dialogue with the Ministers directly involved in the negotiation with the Academic Staff Union of Universities(ASUU) over the unresolved agreement with the government. The meeting which was presided over by the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan was attended by Ministers of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu, Labour, Chris Ngige, the Accountant General of the Federation represented the Finance Minister and the Executive Secretary of the National University Commission(NUC). The meeting was later expanded to include the leaders of ASUU who on Monday had an extensive discussion with the Senate leadership on the controversy bothering on enrollment on the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System(IPPIS). In his opening remarks, the Senate President said the continued closure of Universities on the flip-side posed a security threat which on the long run would affect Nigeria adversely. “The Strike by ASUU is an ill-wind that does no one any good. Our children are home, whereas they should be in school. “We cannot watch the situation deteriorate. This is beyond education as it bothers on security as well, and the future of this country is going to be affected adversely as it is. “So, we feel we should engage with the executive arm of government to hear out what they have to say. This is with the firm belief that we would find a solution to this problem. “We are convinced that when we sit together, we will understand ourselves. And it is in the best interest of us all that we resolve this issue. “I told ASUU yesterday and I’ll repeat it here, that it has to be a win-win situation. ASUU cannot get just what they are asking for because it is simply unrealistic, and government cannot hold back and not do anything. “Something has to give by virtue of horse trading and accommodation; some kind of understanding has to be reached so that ASUU goes back to work and our universities reopened,” Lawan appealed.