* MTN, Airtel raise concerns WorldStage Newsonline– The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), has assured telecommunications operators of speedy restoration of service in North East, following vandalisation of telecoms fibres in Borno and Yobe. NCC Executive Vice-Chairman, Prof. Umar Danbatta said this at a Stakeholders Consultative Forum on Implementation of the National Broadband Policy 2020-2025, on Monday in Abuja. Danbatta said that the fibre infrastructure has been vandalised again by unknown persons cutting millions of people off lines in the North East. He assured operators of quick restoration of service, while noting that the development constituted a breach of national security. The operators had earlier complained that some North Eastern cities had been cut off from communications from both within and outside. Responding to concerns raised by representatives of MTN and Airtel, Danbatta assured of immediate action on the problem. ” Yes, we are aware of the cut of fibre infrastructure in the North East last Friday. We took up the matter immediately. “But reports reaching me right now indicate that some labourers are responsible. And that they have cut it again as of today,” he said. Danbatta said that the attention of the Office of the National Security Adviser (ONSA) as well as that of the Borno Government had been drawn to the issue. He said that the matter would be addressed through dialogue, just like the NCC engaged the Nigeria Customs Service in dialogue when it ordered the stoppage of supplies of diesel to base stations in border communities in the country. Dr Isa Pantami, Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, urged NCC and stakeholders to create a database of critical telecommunications infrastructure and their locations in order to halt incessant attacks on telecoms infrastructure in the country. Mr Ubale Maska, Chairman, Broadband Implementation Steering Committee (BISC), tasked the stakeholders on robust deliberations that would lead to successful implementation of its goal. The event featured a presentation, outlining the blueprint of the committee, indicating its targets. Heads of Agencies under Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy were in attendance at the event.