WorldStage Newsonline– As the World Standards Day 2020, is celebrated around the world, experts in international standardization have advocated substantial reduction in human impact and protection of the planet, seeking political will, concrete action and the right tools among which are international standards. This advocacy is predicated on the human and large scale industrial activities which modern civilization have added to earth’s natural greenhouse gases which negatively impact our climate and with it, all forms of life. According to a statement from the office of the Director General, Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), Mallam Farouk Salim, the focus of the 2020 celebration of the World Standards Day being coordinated by the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC), International Organization for Standardization (ISO) and the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) is “Protecting the Planet with Standards”. Salim posited that rapid population growth and broad urbanization call for the responsible use of limited resources. International Standards prepared by IEC, ISO and ITU take into account tried and true solutions to technical challenges as well as help share expertise and expert know-how broadly, within developed and developing countries alike, he said. He stated that Standards cover all aspects of energy savings, water and air quality, while laying down standardized protocols and methods of measurement. Their broad use helps reduce the environmental impact of industrial production and processes, facilitates the reuse of limited resources and improves energy efficiency, according to the SON Chief Executive. The SON helmsman affirmed that his Organisation as a representative of the international standardization bodies in Nigeria would continue to propagate the global standards through adoption and modification for local use, manpower training through seminars, workshops, consumer enlightenment activities and certification of products, processes and systems using international standards. Salim called on all Nigerians to join the quality vanguard and continue to support SON in its quest to improve the lives of Nigerians through standards and quality assurance activities as well as protecting the environment for sustainability. These according to him can be achieved through reduction in throwaway, reuse and recycle, and landfill of spaces as well as spreading information on the importance and value of our natural resources. Other conservation ideas proposed by the SON Chief Executive include volunteering for clean ups in communities, more efficient use of water to avoid waste, use of energy efficient appliances, planting of trees to provide food and oxygen as well as use of non-toxic chemicals at homes and in offices.